---
title: Resident Evil 4 Remake (2023) (Capcom) (PS5/PC)
description: 9/10 -  Gloria a las plagas!!!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-08-18 22:39
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [capcom, resident evil, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://www.psu.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/ResidentEvil4-Remake-PS5-Wallpapers-0.jpg
  alt: Resident Evil 4 Remake
---

RE4 was already one of the most iconic games in history, and I found this game took the original to another level.

The plot was largely unchanged from the original, though there were a few changes here and there. Ada was far less present in the main game (probably a good thing, to be honest) and got a DLC instead, where she was fantastic there. Luis got far more presence in her absence from the original game, and I think they did a great job in building his character up before ripping him away from us 😢. Krauser as well was developed far more in this game, and with how graceful he was in his defeat and his history with Leon I can confidently say he was a far better character in this game than in the original. What I appreciated most about this game was that they mostly fixed the biggest issue I had with the original RE4 - RE4 was a action adventure game with horror second, this one was very much the opposite with horror elements getting far more focus first with a good chunk of fighting and puzzles behind it. Felt much more in line with the first three RE games as well as the two new entries in RE7/8.

Leon as the main character of the game was far more serious in this game compared to the original. I'm a little sad that they removed some of his lame one-liners and other goofy moments but I do think the toneshift of the game being more focused on darker/supernatural elements called for a more serious Leon, and with his history in RE2 and Raccoon City I think made sense why he's far more jaded in this one.

Ashley was a far better character in this game. While her brattiness and general uselessness in the original was iconic, she was far more mature, helpful to Leon, and her segment of the game where you play as her was far better done and longer in this one. Probably the most fun section of the game for me in my opinion, pure adrenaline rush when the armoured suits are chasing you around the castle. Found her chemistry with Leon to be much better in this game, and I appreciated Capcom for changing the dynamic of their relationship being more equal than babysitter/damsel in distress.

Saddler is the overarching villain yet again, only visual touch ups and a bit more menacing dialogue was given to him. I thought he was depicted as a cult leader far more convincingly in this game versus the original, but nothing really changed here and I do think he's the weakest character in the game. Mendez is the villain of the first act and I'd say he hasn't really changed either. Salazar was the one that received a lot of changes - namely changing his ridiculous dwarf/child-like figure and his constant taunting over the radio to a more serious napoleon-type figure. I was kinda sad they changed him so much, but I suppose he's objectively a more interesting character with the castle getting a lot more content and his own past being fleshed out a bit.

Gameplay was quite possibly the best in the series... yet. Bringing back the attache case and letting you sort your weapons/ammo/utility items by playing tetris was left completely untouched thankfully. Knife felt far more viable in this game with the parrying, guns felt good, movement was finally free from tank controls and now feels incredible. The shooting minigames were fun, the boss fights were more or less the same with a few changes - which is good, because the fights in the original game were fantastic - the set pieces (Village, Castle, Island) were changed a little bit too but overall pretty similar. I think the Castle received the most amount changes with some additional wings being added to the castle, but overall were great changes and I loved playing through them all the same. And of course I have to appreciate the iconic sequences like the Village horde and the Water Room being more or less the same.

OST is pretty iconic in this one. As with all RE games, the save room is probably the theme you'll listen to the most as you run away from enemies and retreat. But the opening theme (The Drive) and the shooting minigame's theme (Shoot the Targets) with the Spanish folk influence.

Ada's DLC Separate Ways was done very well. The grappling hook alone made the DLC super fun to play, and it was good to see her perspective on the Los Illuminados incident seeing as her role from the original game was diminished heavily into the remake. I'm not the biggest Ada Wong stan but the DLC did show off why she's conflicted with her feelings with Leon versus the pride she takes in her job. My man should probably just move on though, she's not dropping the spy job anytime soon for you Leon 😭😭

While I thought RE2R was the best remake in the series, and potentially one of the best of all time, I'd argue this game is now with how much they added. A largely faithful remake with some expansions and most importantly fixing a lot of the issues of the original game, I do think this was the right way to go about it. While I didn't agree with all of the changes, the excursion through Spain was just as iconic as the original. Fantastic game, the game I'd say is the best in the series, and very much one of the best of all time, I'll be interested to see how Albert Wesker and the gang return for RE5.
