---
title: Mother 3 (2006) (Nintendo) (GBA)
description: 9/10 - I'm a sucker for games that never get translated to english...
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-12 22:09
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [nintendo, earthbound, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://getwallpapers.com/wallpaper/full/a/4/a/1036341-large-mother-3-wallpaper-1920x1080-ipad.jpg
  alt: Mother 3
---

Probably one of the most hardest to access JRPGs in recent memory! Need to sail the high seas, if you know what I mean... 🏴‍☠️🏴‍☠️

The plot of Mother 3 was outstanding. Opening with a tragedy in a family where the mother sacrifices herself to save her two sons from a cyborg monster, one of the sons (Claus) attempts to exact revenge on it and _passes away_ in the process, leaving behind only a broken father and a young boy who was forced to grow far quicker than he should've. We see as the plot develops in Tazmily Village that perhaps there was more to the mother's death than what met the eye. 8 chapters in the game, with Chapter 1 being from Flint's (the father) perspective, Chapter 2 and 3 being set in and around the village from different characters, and Chapter 4 onwards being from Lucas' perspective (the youngest son), the plot slowly unravels the history of the islands, how Tazmily Village came to be, and a race to pull the needles that would allow the person who does so to recreate the world in their image.

To speak on the philosophy of the game and why it's quite interesting, we learn that Tazmily Village was formed on the islands originally from normal people who escaped from Earth after war, greed, and other problems of modern society who ended humanity. To try and learn from their past mistakes, they wiped out all their memories and created an idealistic society filled with kindness and cooperation. But of course, that all changed when Porky showed up on the islands, and re-introduced all of the issues from the old Earth with him - militarism, authoritarianism, unchecked capitalism, the world becoming more and more polluted, items getting more expensive throughout the game, etc. And what was genius about this critique was that we see Tazmily Village and its people evolve before our eyes throughout the game. From what was a peaceful village, we see the inhabitants get more and more superficial, colder, and obsessed with more material things. And I found that show, not tell type of storytelling really well executed.

As for the characters, Lucas was a fantastic lead and it was quite fitting that he saved the world because of his pure heart in spite of all the tragedies he suffered through in the game. Kumatora was a bit underdeveloped, but I thought she had a good dynamic with the rest of the group. Duster's own little arc of amnesia before remembering who he was again was nice, and Chapter 2 with him and Wes also gave him some decent amount of depth. And well, Boney is man's best friend. Good doggo.

Pokey (Porky in this game?) is back with a vengeance from Earthbound! Guess when he teleported from the Giygas fight, he ended up here somehow. I found him to be a more flanderized version of his earthbound self here

And of course, the final boss of the game and what was heavily alluded to since we saw him again as a brainwashed masked super soldier, Claus' fight with his brother was quite emotional, and very unique. Lucas slowly refusing to attack his brother throughout the fight and Claus slowly regaining his sense of self back before deciding he didn't want to live on as an empty shell of himself and wanting to reunite with his mother again was heartbreaking.

Gameplay is more or less the same as Earthbound, except for one major change. Basic attacks have a little rhythm minigame to it, and you can extend the amount of damage you can do with it if you sync it up with the battle music in the background, which was a cool bit of skill expression. Every theme is different too, some are easier than others, haha. Only two members use PSI skills instead of the three from Earthbound, which makes Boney kind of an afterthought/mostly items or utility in most fights, which I think they could've done better with.

Some issues I did have was that Chapter 7 was _way_ too long, even if 50% of the story happens there. Compared to the other chapters, its disproportionate. Chapter 6 was also a complete afterthought with a single cutscene. I didn't particularly like Chapter 3 and how horrible the gameplay is there before you pick up some more party members. And Chapter 8 definitely felt a bit undercooked, lots of zones in the Tower where it felt like they ran out of time and put the bare minimum in.

OST was fantastic. Unfounded Revenge, Smashing Song of Praise, Strong One, lots of banger tracks.

Very ambitious and unique game with a story I'm hard pressed to find that's similar. The charm, humour and personality that many praise Earthbound for is all too present here. With a lot more tears, however. Some flaws of course but it is a very strong game overall, would recommend if you know where to find it. Y'ARR!
