---
title: The Elder Scrolls IV - Oblivion (2006) (Bethesda Game Studios) (PS3/X360/PC)
description: 9/10 - Sean Bean is in this one, guess what happens to him...?
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-08-25 20:27
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [bethesda, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://wallpapercave.com/wp/wp10063773.jpg
  alt: Oblivion
---

Oblivion represented the start of the dumbing down spree that some oldheads give Bethesda shit for.

Personally, I thought it was good. Plot was pretty strong. Intro was iconic with the "you are the one from my dreams" sequence in the prison, and the rest of the story that flowed was more or less good, if a little generic. Martin Septim's sacrifice was pretty obvious from a long way out, I don't think it was a surprise to many when it happened at the end. Especially since Sean Bean voiced him. I did like the fact that you weren't really a chosen one in the series this time, you were just a kingmaker that was more or less forgotten in history by the time you got to Skyrim. Hero of Kvatch for a reason, guess your character didn't really do much after the game, haha.

Factions in this game are the best in the whole series, Dark Brotherhood and Thieves Guild in particular are two of the most legendary questlines Bethesda's ever done, and I don't think Fighter's Guild or Mages Guild are that far behind either. Honestly, I don't think they're ever going to match it, it really was that insane. Dark Brotherhood in particular, when the reveal happens that Mathieu Bellamont had been systematically manipulating you into killing off different chapters of the Dark Brotherhood is one of the most insane plot twists in a Bethesda game ever. Some of the the sidequests as well are some of the best Bethesda's put out too, I don't think anyone can forget when you got trapped in a painting or the whodunit house, they're some of my favourite sidequests of all time.

Camoran/Mythic Dawn were pretty standard run-of-the-mill villains, I thought it was a shame you didn't really get to understand their motivations until you fought them near the end. He was kinda absent all game long. Same with Dagon, though Dagon only shows up in the end. I would say Camoran was the more interesting villain of the two as the leader of the apocalypse cult and his own take that Tamriel is a "blue pilled world" that doesn't even exist. Kinda funny how close to the mark he was, huh?

The world was... kinda weird. Cyrodil was both what I imagined it to be, and yet also nothing like what I thought it'd be like. I was expecting incredibly diverse biomes, and a changing landscape every cell or so. And we kinda got... a lot of rolling hills that looked identical, lack of jungle fauna, and barely anything on how it looks in lore. That's just my experience as a TES superfan speaking though, the world is objectively good from a gameplay standpoint. I must say that I liked the open towns/cities a lot, and the Imperial City was incredibly impressive for it's time on the technical side of things. The character models were atrocious though, haha. Potato faces!

Gameplay was a step down from Morrowind for sure. They stripped out a lot of magic stuff, which was a shame. I know they put lore reasons why you can't levitate anymore, but that was just sad to see. They tried to push you more into weapons combat, except the weapons felt really unsatisfying to use, felt there was no weight to any hit. And they unfortunately chose to run with a "world scales to your level" system, which makes some enemies by the end really spongey and unfun to fight.

DLCs were really fun. KotN was a generic high fantasy questline, nothing special but still good all the same. Shivering Isles was revolutionary as an expansion, one of the best DLCs I've ever played. Great world, great plotline, funny characters, good plot with a twist that in order to stop the cycle of Sheogorath and Jyggalag, you had to become Sheogorath to free Jyggalag from losing himself again. What's not to love? Also, it was cool that it's canon that you ascend and the Sheogorath we see in Skyrim is likely the Hero of Kvatch.

Some iconic tracks include Harvest Dawn, Minstrel's Lament, Wings of Kynareth, and Reign of the Septims. Very solid fantasy OST overall.

More good than bad, some steps backward and disappointing stuff in the game, but also some of the most iconic moments in a Bethesda game are also found here. Maybe it's surprising that I have this highly rated with the tone of my review but I think the gameplay is the only real knock against it, everything else is was average at worst, and the peaks are very, very high in this game. Definitely give it a chance, you'll have a blast with it if you like Bethesda games.
