---
title: Fallout 3 (2008) (Bethesda Game Studios) (PS3/X360/PC)
description: 8.5/10 - Gary...!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-09-01 13:01
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [bethesda, fallout, 8.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://www.xgamertechnologies.com/images/pcgames/FALLOUT%203.webp
  alt: Fallout 3
---

Fallout 3 was the switch from 2D isometric to 3D for the franchise.

It got... some interesting reception. At first, people were like, "Wow, Fallout in 3D! This is incredible!" And then after New Vegas released, the sentiment swung around to, "Damn, the writing in this game sucks! Fallout should've stayed 2D! Give the IP to Obsidian!"

I think the truth of this game is in the middle. The writing in this game was not very original, I'll say that. The plot is quite literally the same as FO2's with the start being the same as FO1's with a fresh coat of paint, when you think about it. Vault kicks you out and eventually devolves into a plot where the Enclave is trying to purify DC of "irradiated folks." Only real change is that it revolves around family and the bond the Lone Wanderer (you) had with your Dad. I found the original ending of the game to be really stupid (Fawkes, a super mutant that is completely resistant to radiation, is like "I can't press 3 digits in the hyper irradiated control room! It's your destiny to do it!!!"), but Broken Steel at least fixes that.

The Enclave is back with a vengeance in this game as the main villain! I personally think they weren't really set-up or fleshed out as well as they were in FO2, but it was still cool seeing them fuck shit up again. John Henry Eden or Colonel Autumn is the one you could really call the main villain of the game. The reveal that JHE was a computer and determined that the best way to rebuild America was to cleanse the wasteland of people to try and restart was logic only a computer could come to. And of course Colonel Autumn was more on the side of using Project Purity to rule over DC instead of just trying to murder all the inhabitants, so a more classical straightforward authoritative villain. I liked both, and really appreciated the fact that you can talk your way out of fighting them instead of just running in guns blazing.

The side quests in the game were honestly very good, the vast majority of them gave you plenty of freedom in how you want to solve it - often times, arguably more than FNV did. A lot of entertaining ones like the US Constitution quest, or seeing Harold as a tree in this game from FO1/FO2 was hilarious and a bit sad too.

Bethesda nailed the world, like they usually do. DC in ruins was incredible. Seeing the Mall, Capitol Building, Lincoln Memorial, Jefferson Memorial, the ruins of the White House, etc was super cool. The map itself was one of the most interesting to explore, and maybe a hot take, but I loved the Metro System. Maybe it's because I knew how to traverse it, I loved getting around downtown DC using it. And the random encounters in this game were awesome, really felt the world was alive and no two playthroughs ever quite felt the same.

Gunplay is dated for sure, no iron sights is painful. Taking out traits was also an interesting decision from the original game. And I do wish there were more gun variety. But spamming VATS is a legitimate way to play the game, and the fact that an RPG with an alive world and some shooting mechanics could be this detailed was impressive in and of itself.

DLCs are kind of a mixed bag. Operation Anchorage was bad, especially with the mediocre gunplay. The Pitt is one of my personal favourites, not much has changed in Pittsburgh even after nuclear armageddon, haha. Mothership Zeta was ???, no other way to describe it, felt very bizarre to be on an action-adventure plotline on a alien spaceship. Point Lookout was fun, seeing the redneck hillbillies was hilarious. And Broken Steel kinda retconned the ending and let you live which was much needed and gives a proper ending to the game. Who Dares Wins is one of my most favourite quests ever in a Fallout game.

As you can tell, it's a pretty polarizing game. Maybe it makes no sense why the wasteland is still dead 200 years on with no foliage in sight. Maybe Bethesda screwed up with the ending in the original game. I'll say this. FO3 is the game that I learn the most new things about every time I go back to it. And FO3 might have some of the most iconic set pieces in the series, with the moment of you exiting Vault 101 for the first time and seeing how horrible the world is with the Capitol Building/Lincoln Memorial looming off in the horizon. It was clear that a lot of love was poured into it and it objectively is a great game if you can deal with the dated mechanics. Even the story is fine, just feels unoriginal when you compare it to its predecessors. Highly recommend it, maybe use that mod that lets you port FO3 into FNV so some of these criticisms become a bit moot...
