---
title: Final Fantasy X (2001) (PS2/PC) (Squaresoft)
description: 9.5/10 - A HA HA HA HA HA!!!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-29 18:58
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [square, ff, 9.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images3.alphacoders.com/746/thumb-1920-746263.jpg
  alt: Final Fantasy X
---

FFX is one of the most famous entries in the series pop culturally, right up there with 7. It was the start of a new console generation for both games when Square was at their peak, so I guess that kinda explains the infamy.

Although maybe the laugh also explains the infamy too...?

{% include embed/youtube.html id='H47ow4_Cmk0' %}

The plot is exceptional in this one, I personally have FF6 over it in the series because of the scale and ambition of that game, but 10 is also good though more linear. Tidus is honestly my pick for the best main protagonist in a series that's stacked with incredible protagonists. His arc from going from a selfish, whiny brat with daddy issues to a self-sacrificial hero who bit his tongue and gave up his soul to end the perpetual cycle of Sin was a beautiful representation of how much he grew throughout the game. Doubly so knowing that the main cast would refuse to see the fight through to the end, if they knew he would vanish from existence.

His complicated relationship with his father was also highlighted throughout the game, and while Jecht stunted Tidus emotionally and was a terrible father who didn't understand that his child could be different from him at first, it was obvious that they both loved each other dearly and figured out a way to properly express it by the end. It's a very fascinating scenario, honestly. A verbally abusive father that genuinely did love his son and ended up becoming an absent parent (though against his will) and spent the many years he was separated from his family regretting how he treated Tidus, Jecht is one of the most interesting characters Square has ever written.

The main cast is stacked in this one. Yuna in particular is another character that's one of the best in the series; you could honestly argue that she's the main character of the game, not Tidus as the plot revolves around her and the decisions she chooses to make on her pilgrimage that influences Spira - we simply see the story in the world unfold through Tidus' eyes. The irony that Tidus had to accept at some point that he was a background character of her journey was one that was executed brilliantly throughout the game. Her arc of growing into someone who surpassed her own father was well done too, and I think what made her and Tidus' romance/relationship beautiful was that they were two sides of the same coin despite being so different personality-wise - two children getting crushed under the weight of expectation that their parents' legacy left behind, yet you could definitely say that both ended up surpassing their parents.

And you had other characters in the main cast like Kimahri growing from the runt of his tribe to the very strongest by the end, Wakka learning to grow past his prejudice/racism, Auron's own fascinating tale of growing into a mentor for the kids, and more.

The most exceptional part of this game was the ending. It had me in tears, it was beautiful. Very well executed with Tidus accepting his fate knowing he was nothing more than a dream someone created, and Yuna trying to whistle for Tidus because of the promise he made that he'd come running and then her speech at the end to the people before the credits rolled... it was perfect, she'd grew into a true leader.

The gameplay of FFX wasn't particularly special in FF-land. Combat was a bit slower and more turn-based-like, limit breaks returned in the form of overdrives too. The world was also quite interesting - Spira was kind of a mix of sci-fi with fantasy and some post apocalyptic elements too. I think it was a shame that the world was so linear until the end, would've been interesting to properly explore it.

I think the only place this game suffers is the villain. Yevon was an interesting villain with his lore of originally creating Sin as a guardian but accidentally getting trapped and being forced to resummon the calamity over and over again, but he had no presence throughout the game until the end mostly. Seymour was a cool character with his personality and creepy antics, but not the best villain nor was he particularly well written. Jecht was both interesting and well written though! Shame he wasn't really even a villain...

OST has some pretty famous tracks. To Zanarkand is a pretty legendary one, you'll hear a lot of people play this on piano. A Fleeting Dream, Suteki Da Ne (Isn't it Wonderful?) and Besaid are also iconic.

A hero/coming of age journey that tackled family matters and showed that blood is not always thicker than water with its story of found family. This really was one of Square's best works, and sadly one of their last truly great games.
