---
title: The Last of Us 2 (2020) (PS4/PS5/PC) (Naughty Dog)
description: 9.5/10 - An ugly game that explores just how far a child is willing to go for their parent.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-28 22:12
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [naughty dog, tlou, 9.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://rare-gallery.com/mocahbig/436978-The-Last-of-Us-2-Ellie-video-games-video-game-characters.jpg
  alt: The Last of Us 2
---

Oh no, not this game. The game that had... less than warm reception, when it released. I personally think that criticism was mostly bullshit and not in good faith. Let's be real, we all know the reason why so much shit was flung at this game. Can't have strong female characters in games!

To be objective, I think this game's story is not as good as the original because of how convoluted the dual protagonist mechanic worked, but it was still executed reasonably well and I commend the writers for trying it. And to address the elephant in the room, yes, you have to play as Abby. Yes, it is around half of the game. And yes, I was pissed off too, that I had to play as Joel's killer. But give her a chance, I honestly genuinely liked Abby by the end of the game as a character. And I do think the overall plot in Seattle was fantastic.

Ellie's story of self-hatred following Joel's death right after they started to make amends with each other from the _lying about turning into the terminator in Salt Lake City_ incident and it consuming her by the end as she becomes a monster was very well done. The fact that she tortures Nora as she's already dying from the spores and cold bloodedly kills a pregnant woman was horrifying, doubly so when she was travelling with a fellow pregnant woman in Dina. While Abby, starting off as a monster and "avenger" for her father and brutally murdering Joel in front of Ellie's eyes, finds that killing Joel brought her no peace and began to find meaning in life with Lev as she begins to want to protect an innocence and finds a new reason to live again other than for hate.

Interestingly enough, you can make the argument that either Ellie or Abby is the main antagonist of the game just like how you can argue that either Ellie or Abby are the main protganist of the game. Both of them kill and destroy a significant chunk of each other's lives over the course of the game. Perspective is such a funny thing, isn't it? I'll consider Abby the main villain for argument's sake since Ellie is the one on the box cover and the one you play as in the ending, and she is incredibly compelling as one. The fact that she illicted so much hate from terminally online folks is proof enough that the writers did a good job with her. I do think having to play as Abby for so long wasn't that great, and it would've helped if we got her backstory before she killed Joel, but it was fine. And the iconic boss fight where you fight each other was incredible, I do wish the fight was a bit harder but Ellie being the one who's stalking you in the theatre like David did to Ellie in TLOU1 was kind of a cruel callback and twist of fate, haha.

Some other characters included Dina and Jesse (RIP) from Ellie's side. I'm not sure what it was but I thought Dina was... not a very interesting character? I do think she enabled too much of Ellie in Seattle and inadvertently led her down a dark path. Jesse wasn't much better either but I liked the bonding moment he had with Ellie in Days 2 and 3. Shame a stray bullet took him out...

From Abby's side, I liked her posse. Manny was great (RIP). Nora was fine in what little we got with her. I found the love triangle of Mel-Owen-Abby to be done very well, and I genuinely did feel sorry for Mel that she fell in love and got pregnant with a guy who never moved on from his first love (RIP)(RIP). Owen in particular was an interesting character, I never got the feeling he wanted to go after Joel and tried to get Abby to move on from her father's murder which was pretty interesting. Shame he got clipped by Ellie before he took off with Abby and Lev though.

And of course, Lev and Yara (RIP) were very interesting characters as well, the former being an andryogenous, trans male character and his sister being very protective of him after they left the Seraphite cult. It's no coincidence that Lev very much became the Ellie to Abby's Joel, there's a reason why Abby and Joel from TLOU1 play so similarly. Cut from the same cloth, kinda vibes. As someone who's never seen a trans character be such a prominent character in a game, I do think Lev was done pretty well.

Gameplay took another leap, how do Naughty Dog keep doing it? Stealth is one of the most fun experiences I've had since Hitman: Blood Money, and they iterated on the already iconic crafting and upgrade system with some nice QoL changes. The increase in diversity of perks was nice too, you can build either of the characters to your liking and playstyle, which was great. While the game and world itself was linear, I did appreciate how Day 1 of Seattle was pretty open ended on how you can explore it.

Another masterclass from Gustavo and Mac Quayle, Unbroken, Longing, Beyond Desolation and The Island are fantastic tracks. Loved the Take on Me remix by Ellie too.

My main gripe with the game mostly has to do with the ending actually. I found the Santa Barbara segment to be pointless, and even a little contradictory that Ellie was so willing to go back and kill Abby in the first place, and then decide it's not worth it right before she tries to do the deed. While it objectively makes sense with her trauma giving her the moment of clarity that killing Abby will only give her more grief, it does feel very unsatisfying and pointless. It might partially be because you were forced to play 10+ hours of Abby and it's been a while since you last saw Ellie and her character arc, but it is hard to take that moment particularly seriously. I think Naughty Dog recently tried to rectify it by adding the option of playing the game in chronological order, but I can't respect that bandaid fix when the game wasn't originally designed for that.

If TLOU1 can be described as a game that shows the love and how far a parent is willing to go for their child, then TLOU2 is best described as a game that shows the opposite - how far two children were willing to go for their parent out of love. TLOU2 does so much right, but the writing towards the end feels like they misexecuted the ending. I hesitate to call it perfect, but it is a really great game with some incredibly raw writing, don't let weirdos stop you from giving it a try and form your own opinion.
