---
title: The Elder Scrolls III - Morrowind (2002) (XBOX/PC) (Bethesda Game Studios)
description: 9.5/10 - What a fool you are. I'm a god, how can you kill a god? What a grand and intoxicating innocence! How could you be so naive? There is no escape. No recall or intervention can work in this place. Come, lay down your weapons. It is not too late for my mercy...
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-26 15:29
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [bethesda, elder scrolls, 9.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images8.alphacoders.com/404/404531.jpg
  alt: Morrowind
---

I think this is Bethesda's magnum opus.

Stepping off the boat in Seyda Neen is one of the most magical moments in gaming for me. The plot is legendary, the best one Bethesda's ever cooked up in my opinion. The story of you realizing that the current "gods" in Vvardenfell who stabbed you in the back in your previous life when they were just mortals are now the ones begging you for help was a sad bit of irony. Especially because they ascended into gods because they did that. And lets not mention the fact that the main villain of the game was the one guy who stayed loyal to you for centuries but lost his sanity along the way...

Dagoth Ur is one of my most favourite villains ever. He really makes you question whether you're really doing the right thing, just from doing whatever people are telling you to do. Azura, the daedric prince, is telling you to save Vvardenfell by killing him so that she can get her worshippers back. The Tribunal wants you to do the same to keep up the illusion that they're still powerful and not fading away to maintain their politcal power. Yet is killing Dagoth Ur really the worst thing in the world? I find it hilarious that his goal was to make Morrowind great again, quite literally. But on the perspective of anti-imperialism/colonialism, he does present an interesting argument that Vvardenfell should be independent from foreign oppression as the Empire was trying to wash away the history of the Dunmer. And while he does do diabolical things and his goal was to ultimately create an army of brainwashed slaves, it was out of love for his country/people, though I suppose he became deranged at some point. His monologue right before the boss fight is iconic - the one I put in the headline - and for good reason. One of the greatest villains in games, period.

I'm sure a lot of people who have heard about this game will know this, if nothing else. The gameplay is absolutely hair rippingly frustrating at first. Dice roll combat isn't just a meme, it's reality. You're an absolute wimp at the start who relies on getting lucky to connect your attacks against basic rats. But trust me, if you stick with the game, you'll quickly realize there are ways to get strong, and even break the game with how much freedom you're given with the magic system in the game. Morrowind has probably the best gameplay of any Bethesda game I've played, because they give you so much freedom in solving how you want approach combat, and I think that in itself should be commended.

Factions were interesting. Ignoring the houses, I did like how Thieves Guild and Fighter's Guild conflicted if you just ran into doing the quests blindly - wish Bethesda did this more often. Morag Tong in particular was a bit of a slog because they often asked you to kill someone in the middle of nowhere with little instruction on how to get to them, but it did feel rewarding once you did track them down. Overall good questlines, if a little undercooked and basic.

Exploring Vvardenfell for the first time was an experience I'll never get to live again. Seeing the bizarre, alien world filled with overgrown mushrooms and flying manta rays that never leave you alone was incredible to me. I personally liked how little handholding there was in the game with directions and forcing you to get to know the roads better, but maybe that was just me.

Expansions were alright. Solstheim was fun with some Hircine lore, and you get to see it built up from being a mining village to an actual town by the end of the DLC, and when you play the Dragonborn DLC in Skyrim you get to see how far its come from those days too! Tribunal gave a bit more lore/background info on the Nerevarine's past, and it was cool in that regard. I did like how Almalexia - the main villain of the DLC - really personified how broken and corrupt the tribunal really was.

Some tracks I loved in the OST is the main theme, actually. Others include The Road Most Travelled and Peaceful Waters.

I'll have to knock off 0.5 points for the slow start. It really is that bad. And while I personally liked the directions/lack of quest markers, I do understand it's not everyone's cup of tea. It's an incredible game with an incredible story otherwise.
