---
title: Metal Gear Solid 2 - Sons of Liberty (2001) (PS2/XBOX/PC) (Konami)
description: 10/10 - One of the most interesting political commentaries in a game, ever.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-20 22:04
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [konami, mgs]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images2.alphacoders.com/502/502268.jpg
  alt: Metal Gear Solid 2 - Sons of Liberty
---

A game that was far, far ahead of its time.

Plot is legendary. From the _Tanker Incident_ in the prologue of the game to the _Big Shell Incident_, large portions of the game feel eerily similar to MGS1 and for good reason - it's not meant to be a nice callback, it's the reality of Big Shell eventually becoming a virtual training facility meant to create super soldiers. A game that revolved around the idea of digital/media censorship and how propaganda and selectively limiting the knowledge people are fed can control the masses effectively is something that continues to be true today, and may even be more true than ever in modern day.

Raiden is one of the most deeply complex characters I've seen in a video game, with his history as growing up as a child soldier being the root of his trauma in the military. And of course, there was also the fact that all of the events in his life were selectively controlled by the military without his knowledge, including the girl he fell in love with. Him questioning his entire identity as he slowly breaks down and begins to question whether he can truly distinguish between what is orchestrated and reality was very well done. It was interesting to see how much the game revolved around Raiden's unwillingness to get help for his mental issues in a period of time when mental health was an afterthought, makes you wonder how this game released in 2001.

An interesting cast of characters: I thought Rose - Raiden's fiancee - was a good character. I did like her story of being someone who was meant to spy on Raiden at first but genuinely fell in love with him. At least Raiden has that going for him, poor guy.

Solid Snake/David not being the main character of the game and being the "mentor" was something that a lot of people hated at the time and was highly controvertial after the success of MGS1, but I thought it worked out beautifully. Him being the one to ground Raiden, and help him move forward with his life was nice to see. It was also kinda Kojima's way of telling the fans, "move on from Solid Snake, lol." It's a shame Konami kept having him revisit the series even though he didn't really want to...

Colonel/AI was one of the craziest villains I've ever seen. Raiden slowly piecing together that the person who was guiding him through Big Shell was not all it seemed was fantastic, and the moment it all clicks for him that he's demo running a VR sim for future soldiers at Big Shell was perfect. I think what made them such a great villain was how they weaponized Raiden's trauma and quite literally gaslit him and victim blamed him throughout the game, it was really disturbing to watch - like seeing an abuser and a victim in real-time.

And then you had Solidus Snake as the secondary antagonist. The fact that he was somehow kind of a victim in this is wild to me, especially since he's the main reason why Raiden is so messed in the head as his former XO from when Raiden was a child soldier. Somehow, the Patriots/AI were able to get him to terrorize Big Shell... all according to their plan, yeesh. Great character, he really paralleled Solid/David's Big Boss for Raiden.

Gameplay was not that much more different than MGS1, some nice improvements like holdups, moving bodies, and shooting cameras were included, but it is still just as clunky. But really, playing MGS for the combat is a mistake imo, its more like an incredible cinematic story with FPS and stealth elements.

Some of the most iconic MGS themes come from this game, actually. Yell Dead Cell is a classic, the Opening Theme, The World Only Needs One Big Boss! and Tanker Incident/Lethal Encounter are also fantastic. And Can't Say Goodbye to Yesterday is another great song, this one with lyrics. Fitting song to close out the game as Raiden walks off with Rose... but is that also apart of the Patriots plan...?

This was the game I point to that video games can be a form of art, and it's a game that keeps aging like fine wine. I would argue it has the most interesting story of a game I've ever played. A beautiful overarching message that people should ultimately try to preserve the truth as best as they can as it will get harder and harder to in the future and to let the future generations learn to think for themselves, MGS2 truly was a special game.
