---
title: Silent Hill 2 (2001) (PS2/PS3/XBOX/X360/PC) (Konami)
description: 10/10 - A revolutionary title in the horror genre for video games.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-21 17:17
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [konami, silent hill]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: /assets/img/sh2.png
  alt: Silent Hill 2
---

In my opinion, the most iconic horror game of all time!

The story in this game is one of my favourite ever in a game, and it's a really fascinating one as the game slowly reveals to you what James Sutherland did to his wife years ago, and why he came to Silent Hill. It poses a fascinating question. What should James Sutherland's fate be, for killing his terminally ill wife who he once loved but could no longer bear seeing in her state? And I love how the decisions you make in the game, how you play, how much time you spend with certain characters, all influences the ending of the game.

James is honestly the main antagonist of the game even though he's also the main protaganist, which is what makes this game so interesting. What you see at Silent Hill is a byproduct of his guilt for his murder, and this is reflected by the enemies you face in combat - they are quite literally, the demons inside of his head. And James is a deeply complex and fascinating character since you could definitely argue he is a monster, or that he was a good person who made a terrible mistake. There's leeway to argue for either given by the evidence seen in the game - it all depends on your morality and how you view the context of his actions.

Maria was a fascinating character as the secondary antagonist of the game. She is quite literally the main demon inside of James' head as she is the manifestation of everything he wanted his late wife to be, born from his delusions/Silent Hill itself as they attempt to try to get him to admit the truth of his crimes. And I do love how the ending of the game is greatly influenced by how you interact with her throughout the game - getting the Maria ending shows that James is doomed to repeat the past

And having Laura be present as James' moral compass was a great foil to having Maria roaming around. Very much the daughter he and Mary should've had and someone who constantly reminded James of the person his late wife was, I appreciate that one the most idealistic ending of SH2 involved James letting go of the past and moving on with Laura.

Felt bad for a lot of the characters in the game, honestly. Angela's past was really horrible to see, Eddie's as well, but for the opposite reason because of who he ended up becoming. Mary's story especially was tragic, she really didn't deserve what happened to her but is sadly what often happens to relationships in cases like hers.

I personally believe the "In Water" ending is canon from the original - the remake is different as an FYI. I don't think James was a terrible person judging how he treated the other people at Silent Hill and how he genuinely tried to help them. But I do believe he lied to himself constantly to absolve himself of blame and I don't think he was mentally strong enough to survive without Mary, which is why I think him choosing suicide makes sense. While I did like the "Leave" ending, I think James was far too broken as a person to properly move on with Laura. I didn't think he truly hated Mary either when she was sick, so the "Maria" ending didn't ever feel right to me. But of course, that's just my interpretation of the game!

Gameplay really made the most out of the poor shooting mechanics of this era, I'll say that. I have never been a fan of tank controls, but I do feel like the game gave you enough time to compensate for making movement mistakes in combat. The puzzles were creative, loved them. The ambience, the unsettling set pieces throughout the game, the realization you have when you begin to see that James is quite mentally ill and not right in the head and it getting reflected in the settings he found himself in in Silent Hill was incredible thematically. I also find it to be an interesting lore tidbit that everyone who comes to Silent Hill sees something different based off the regrets you have - that's why Laura only ever saw an abandoned town while James was experiencing hell on earth.

OST was beautiful. I have a lot of themes I love from this game, Promise (Reprise), Promise and Theme of Laura are all up there for some of my favourite in the games I've played, just hauntingly melancholic.

A psychological thriller that made the most of the technological limitations of its time, there is no game quite like Silent Hill 2. The fact that this game still sparks debates and conversations about its themes, the story, the characters and the world really is a testament to how good it was.
