---
title: Metal Gear Solid - Peace Walker (2010) (PSP/PS3/X360) (Konami)
description: 8.5/10 - Big Boss' vacation in Costa Rica, gone horribly wrong!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-20 21:58
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [konami, metal gear, 8.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images5.alphacoders.com/386/thumb-1920-386182.jpg
  alt: Metal Gear Solid - Peace Walker
---

What a strange game this was. Not technically MGS5, but it had just as much content as a normal MGS game.

The plot of Peace Walker was fantastic. This game was what really what showed off Big Boss' heel turn into a villain after killing his old mentor from MGS3. At the start of the game, we see Big Boss having defected from the US Army and running his own mercenary group called Militaires Sans Frontieres, and him getting contacted by a young ambassador named Paz for a job - Costa Rica is starting to build up their own nuclear weapons and its on Big Boss to stop them. We see that this mission becomes much deeper and more personal when Big Boss realizes that the leader of this outfit in Costa Rica is using an AI to control these Nuclear Weapons... one that's based fully on The Boss' personality.

This was a story that fully centered around Big Boss, and I'll speak on him here. Obviously he's still carrying a lot of baggage from the events of MGS3 and is trying his best to carry on her legacy as he tries to use MSF for good. But he's confronted by her entire personality yet again years in the future. And after defeating the AI pod, we see that Big Boss observes how the AI Pod yet again, chooses to sacrifice itself to stop a nuclear war as her personality overrides the wishes of the chief. And this was the moment when Big Boss decided that his path would diverge from his teacher: she tried to create peace by using her skills for nations that would never appreciate the sacrifices she made, while Big Boss decided he would use MSF to create a world where soldiers would always be needed as they would become the "peacekeepers" of the world, thereby creating Metal Gear ZEKE in the epilogue.

Chief Coldman is the main villain of the game, and there's not really much depth to him other than him power tripping and wanting to launch nukes to prove that MAD works, which is kind of a backwards way of thinking since MAD is already working...? I would say the AI is kinda a villain but at the same time, the AI is mostly just a plot device. Paz as the secret final boss of the game is revealed to be a Cipher agent - more on that in MGS5 and Ground Zeroes - where her ploy was to steal MSF's greatest weapon, ZEKE. I think the next two games really show off why she's an interesting character, but not in this game.

Gameplay was... fascinatingly good for a PSP game. This game was designed for COOP play so some of the bosses are very difficult if you play it solo. But I think the stealth and combat mechanics holdup reasonably well for something that was released on limited hardware. Building up Mother Base throughout the game as a side objective and creating as strong of an army as possible was quite fun, and this minigame returns in MGS5 because of how popular it was. And while I wasn't the biggest fan of the infinite side missions you can go on (I'm not really a fan of radiant quests), it was still useful filler content.

Problems with the game: like I mentioned earlier, this game really failed to foresee that PSP wouldn't last forever. As such, a lot of content got locked out, never mind the bosses being difficult as they are already. Further, while I liked that this game helped bridge the gap between MGS1 BB and MGS3 BB, I do think the reasoning as to why he went full villain is a bit weak. But it did give us a reason to show off how he lost the plot, and MGS5 also helped fill in more gaps later on.

OST is pretty legendary. The title theme was so good, they brought it back as the deployment theme in MGS5. Heavens Divide is a pretty famous song that plays in the penultimate mission, and I like to think it's The Boss' last thoughts on BB before she died. And can anyone forget how Paz sang a JPOP song before blasting it during the final boss fight? LMAO! Koi no Yokushiryoku (Love Deterrence) was super great, even funnier when you realize that Kaz Miller (BB's right hand man) was the one who wrote it, haha. Do I detect some love in the air between you, men? (Kaz is definitely gay for BB.)

All in all, a game that had some problems but overall a fun experience. Kojima tried something new, and I think he mostly succeeded in closing some plotholes in the series. Hard to find a way to play this game nowadays, but it was good. Definitely would at least read up on the plot before tackling MGS5/Ground Zeroes.
