---
title: Final Fantasy IX (2000) (Squaresoft) (PS1)
description: 9/10 - A return to FF roots!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-08-27 21:18
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [square, ff, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://cdn.wallpapersafari.com/8/87/vJu8Wd.jpg
  alt: Final Fantasy IX
---

After the shift to steampunk in FF6, dieselpunk in FF7 and more of a sci-fi environment in FF8, many people felt like FF9 was more of a return to its original roots with high fantasy being the major theme here with only minimal industrial influence. And I think it was a "soft reboot" that hit the mark very well.

The plot of the game was strong more or less. A game that started off as a fairytale-esque world with Zidane kidnapping Princess Garnet for a job and eventually spiralling into a continent-wide conflict spearheaded by a guy who wanted to take revenge on the whole world for creating him. What I found interesting was that FF9 felt more like a game that picked a theme and the characters conformed to it rather than the characters determining the theme of the game. FF6 revolved heavily around the dual protagonists, FF7 was Cloud's journey of overcoming his shortcomings/PTSD, FF8 revolved around the children of fate and how Squall and Rinoa's love transcended time, FF10 was Tidus/Yuna's coming of age story. FF9 on the other hand is very much a story about existenalism and the main cast each finding their own purpose in life.

Zidane was an interesting main lead. Pretty rare to have a thief archetype as the party leader! His tale of trying to figure out his past, to finding out that he was born to be a weapon/puppet in order to wipe out the main continent and converge the twin worlds together. Him running away from the party out of disgust for his own existence to the party obviously refusing to abandon him was strong narratively. Personally I found that sequence very unimpactful because of how quickly it unfolds and how quickly Zidane ends up going back to the party, but the idea behind it was good. While he's not my most favourite character in the series, he is objectively one of the better ones.

Vivi is one of the most infamous characters in the series and for very good reason. He was quite similar to Zidane as a mass-produced doll that gained sentience but I found his arc to be far stronger than Zidane's. Him finding the village of black mages (his people) and learning that he is not long for the world as all the black mages who come to the village have accepted their fate was mental and heartbreaking. Yet instead of lying down and accepting his fate, Vivi chooses to keep fighting with his newfound friends in order to give his short life meaning. When we see that there is no Vivi in the epilogue but rather a bunch of little black mages running around, it's clear he left behind a beautiful legacy to live life to the fullest.

While the other main cast have similar arcs of identity and self purpose, like Garnet initially running away from the responsibility of her mother growing into a tyrant and eventually finding the resolve to stop her or Steiner's own arc of discovering what it means to be righteous and just as a knight of a kingdom committing atrocities, I think Zidane and Vivi are by far the most interesting and well done characters in the game.

And of course, we have the main villain. Kuja is interesting in that he and Zidane are basically brothers. But where they differed was obviously that Zidane grew up with love and friends, while Kuja was isolated and walked down a much darker path. It also didn't help that Kuja was the prototype weapon while Zidane was meant to be the perfect one, which is kinda sad in a really twisted way. I think Kuja was a very well written character and a fantastic villain - one of the best in the series.

Terra/Gaia were great to explore - I wish the Terra segment of the game was longer, but it was narratively interesting to see two parallel worlds inside out of each other, kinda like Termina and Hyrule in Majora's Mask. Gameplay-wise was a throwback to the classical/SNES era style of combat, where each character had a defined class instead of being blank slates like in FF7/8 and returning back to 4 character parties. It was a nice love letter to the originals, especially since this game really is the last one that felt like them.

Fun fact, Nobuo Uematsu considers FF9 to be his finest work! I don't think that's true personally, but music is always subjective. Roses of May, Dark Messenger, most of the battle themes, and of course I think everyone loves the spanish influence of Vamo Alla Flamenco from playing that stupid minigame hundreds of times, haha.

I think where FF9 suffered a bit narratively was not making Kuja the final villain but rather making Necron (the embodiment of Kuja's actions of trying to destroy the world) the final villain. Just felt jarring and a classic "let's have them fight a god because why not?" trope in JRPGs that they rely on way too much. Further, I do think the game suffers from some pacing issues towards the middle - most post-Alexandria where you're mostly just fighting overworld monsters over and over again.

A lot of people rate FF9 as the best game in the series. I don't personally agree because I find the plot to be less strong than FF6 or FF10, but in my mind it is one of the best, and a great game period. A clear love letter to the fans from the gameplay and world that they constructed, I think FF9 is a very special game even with its flaws.
