---
title: Final Fantasy 6 (1994) (SNES/GBA/PC) (Squaresoft)
description: 10/10 - In my opinion, the peak of the series.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-24 22:16
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [square, ff, 10/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://wallpaperset.com/w/full/3/3/e/439600.jpg
  alt: Final Fantasy 6
---

Maybe a slightly hot take because of the latter part I'm about to say - I think this is the best FF game, and _it's not even close_.

The plot of the game is legendary. How many games can say that the main villain actually fully accomplished their goal? And not only that, but the second half of FF6 is completely non-linear - if you truly wanted to, it was possible to storm the Tower whenever you wanted, it's just easier to re-recruit everyone back into your party so that you'll be strong enough for the dungeon.

What's interesting about this game is that there is no main protagonist in this game. The closest you'll get is either Terra or Celes, and both are fantastic characters - two of the best Square has ever put out. Terra is the main protagonist of the first half of the game, while Celes becomes the main protagonist of the second half of the game as Terra fades from relevance in the plot there.

Terra was an interesting character as she starts as someone who wants to learn what love is after being in an environment where she was born and raised to be a human weapon and not truly understanding emotions as she gets freed from her position, to getting teased with many romantic relationships with many of the male characters of the game, to ending up discovering love by adopting and caring for the orphans in Mobliz as she became their surrogate mother post-Kefka incident. It's probably the most interesting and progressive development I've seen on a female main character, and I think she was a very strong character as someone who ultimately built herself up by herself and learned to become human in a beautiful way.

To contrast her, Celes who grew up in a similar environment to Terra started off with full control of her humanity as she never had her emotions stripped from her. But she loses her humanity throughout the game - we see her getting ready to be executed in her introduction as a character for refusing to commit war crimes for the empire, then she's treated as an outcast in the party with her past as a general in the Empire's army after Locke saves her and eventually she _betrays_ the group by trying to destroy the Empire from within. Once she fails her mission and Kefka ruins the world, the story's focus shines on her with her growing sense of little self-worth and the weight of all of her failures. We see her try suicide shortly after coming out of her coma as she hits rock bottom, but she finds a reason to try and live again after seeing Locke's bandana on the seagull - the person she cared for most in the group - as she strikes up the band of the old party, rallying around her as the hope that they can take back their world and to try to meet Locke again as she had not yet been copmletely jaded by the world Kefka created yet.

Two very fascinating characters whose stories parallel each other and have this certain type of gravity to them that attracts members of the party to them. Their paths may have diverged, but both of them fundamentally ask the same question: what does it mean to be human? And I do think both Terra and Celes found their answer in different ways.

And that's not all. Locke's own story of his trauma from losing loved ones and learning to forgive himself and move on with his story coming full circle with his romance with Celes throughout the game was very well done, and I'd argue it might be the best romantic pairing Square's ever done. Edgar's sacrifice to Sabin with the double headed coin knowing that no matter how much he hated politics, Sabin detesting it more was a beautiful reveal. Relm and Shadow's own history as father and daughter, Setzer's own past of being scared to truly pursue his passion in life again, etc, the cast of this game was absolutely stacked.

Kefka is one of the most iconic villains in gaming, honestly. Quite literally the Japanese Joker, the guy is completely unhinged. A clown with a nihilistic god complex, he actually succeeds in making the world a hellhole that he rules over. His history of being another experiment like Terra and Celes but gone wrong in a very horrible way was quite fitting I think - while Terra and Celes represented hope and that life is worth living by building up their humanity, Kefka never wants nor does he ever try to rediscover his humanity and fully embraces himself as a _god_. Taking him down was one of the most satisfying moments in gaming for me, and his boss fight is one of the most iconic fights in all of gaming for me. The four phases of his fight were fantastic.

OST was outstanding. Nobuo Uematsu went all out in this one, Decisive Battle, Terra, Locke and Celes' Theme, Searching for Friends, Coin of Fate are all beautiful. And imo, his single greatest work ever was in this game - Dancing Mad is legendary, and for good reason. The third movement is my personal favourite part of the 17 minute overture, but the fourth is the most iconic part of the track.

Gameplay wasn't anything unique or special, it was just classic FF through and through. The world was actually quite interesting - we see how the world is in the World of Balance in the first half of the game, but it was cool to see how much changed in a _post apocalyptic_ setting in a JRPG. Very well done for sure.

A story about overcoming failure and what it truly means to be human, an outstanding score, and even some open-world elements to it with it's non-linear second half! Incredible game through and through, many consider it to be one of the best JRPG's ever released and I do believe it's the best JRPG I've ever played.
