---
title: Xenoblade Chronicles 1 (2010) (Wii/3DS/NSW) (Monolith Soft)
description: 9.5/10 - Arguably the most ambitious Wii title ever released.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-26 15:02
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [monolith soft, xenoblade, 9.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: /assets/img/xc1.jpg
  alt: Xenoblade Chronicles
---

This game often gets raved about by JRPG fans, and it's no surprise why. XC1 has a fantastic plot that stayed strong from start to end with a compelling narrative starting with the invasion of Colony 9, to the game revolving around the cycle of retaliation in war with the two continents of Bionis and Mechonis having fought each other for millennia until this recent peace. Shulk was a great main lead as someone who was very naive in his conquest for revenge but eventually becomes someone who truly understands the desire for peace. The idea of free will gets highlighted a lot in this game as well - Shulk who was originally just a vessel for Zanza but eventually grew out of it because of his intense desire to live was very well done, and this was seen by him creating his own Monado. The classic JRPG of fighting gods by the end of course happened, but it does make sense as they were the ones perpetuating the cycle.

Fun cast overall though I do feel like a majority of the main cast don't really get much focus in the 2nd half of the game, it was a game that revolved mostly revolved around Shulk and Seven, and that is something I do think the game didn't do that great. I know people say Melia got done dirty but there was always only ever one girl for Shulk, and that's Seven haha. Happy a childhood friend won for once in Japanese media, if you know you know. 😉

Going a bit deeper into the main cast, Reyn had a nice arc of him being Shulk's protector as a meathead while Shulk was the classic skinny nerd type, though he quickly starts to realize it's Shulk who's bailing him out more often than the other way around by the midpoint of the game. It was a nice sequence and moment of maturity from him to decide he wants to be Shulk's equal instead of feeling like he no longer has a purpose. Similarly, Melia struggling with her duties as a princess and growing into it by the end was nice to see. Even Riki had a surprising amount of depth when he talks to Dunban about being a father and how hard it is to let go of his kids and give them the chance to make decisions on their own. Just sucks that a lot of them didn't get too much focus towards the end.

Seven was probably the second main lead which is weird because she's presumed dead for at least a third of the game. She was a pretty good character though, the reveal that she's basically a reanimated corpse who doesn't have much time left once Meyneth's monado is removed from her and her trying to make the most of her time left was done well with Shulk. I do think it would've been even more impactful if she died at the end (Shulk having to sacrifice as well instead of getting the fairy tale type ending with his friends), but they did the cop-out of finding a way for her to live again. Not that I disliked her, but the plot might've been 10/10 for me if she did stay dead. Oh well, at least her and Shulk were cute.

Zanza was okay as the overarching villain, I do feel like we didn't get enough time from him to properly rate him as a character since he kinda stole the show at the end with only some buildup.

Egil is the main villain of most of the game as the one who's waging war on Shulk's people, and in my opinion he's up there for one of the best JRPG villains ever. Though his means weren't justified, you could definitely argue that Egil was trying to achieve what Shulk did in the end where he was trying to create a world without a need for Gods and thereby ending the cycle, though he went about it in a very brutal fashion. He also delivered an iconic one-liner with multiple layers in the Agniratha fight against him ("Your blade, it didn't cut deep enough"), referring to both Shulk's weapon, Shulk's words, and Shulk's resolve to try and change Egil's mind. Just a complete aura farmer, haha.

The world was wonderful, I'm a firm believer in open world zones and this game executed that idea perfectly. Some of the setpieces in the game are stunning, I loved Eryth Sea and night time Satorl Marsh as well as Valak Mountain. It even rewards you for exploring properly with the secret zones being a treasure trove of experience/AP, loved that. There's a mass amount of content with side quests, though a lot of them were admittedly unmemorable fetch quests, sadly. I unfortunately think the overwhelming large amount of side content works against the game - it is a little hard to get into, you sort of need to do it to get access to some of the best gear, but not many sidequests are very interesting.

Combat is one of the most unique systems I've seen in a JRPG, real time combat but also let you cook up tactics and sequences with chain attacks, it was a great system. The affinity system that created a web of links between your main characters and it affecting chemistry in fights was awesome too. It did also help flesh out some of the characters' personalities with the conversations you can have between them, shame it was optional though...

XC1 might have one of my most favourite OSTs ever, it might be an easier question to ask what theme isn't good. My personal favourites include An Obstacle in our Path, You Will Know Our Names, Mechanical Rhythm, In the Refugee Camp, and both Agniratha themes. Especially the last one, it's one of the most beautiful themes I've ever heard - the extra strings and piano when they kick in are very powerful. The credits theme as well - Beyond the Sky was beautiful too.

I do think the game did a poor job at handling some of the main cast members like Sharla and Dunban. The former especially because of how little relevance she had after Colony 6 until Gadolt came back briefly for some extra drama, but the latter should've had a much better character arc with the Mumkhar saga, felt like Shulk stole his thunder a bit and even then you could debate that that moment was kinda hypocritical from Shulk. _I hate all mechons, but humans inside mechons? Can't be killing any of them!_ I've never really been a big fan of the classic JRPG fighting gods at the end of the game trope, but they did execute it reasonably well as I mentioned before, and it tied in nicely with the idea of free will and Shulk/Egil striving to create a world that existed outside of the Gods' sphere of influence.

Overall it was an ambitious game that ran well on a limited piece of hardware, and they delivered a near perfect game with some caveats here and there. There are things I can't overlook with the game but they are minor, and it really is fantastic. Highly recommend.
