---
title: Yakuza 0 (2015) (Konami) (PS4/XB1/PC)
description: 9/10 - 1980's prequel of the iconic series!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-08-06 14:55
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [konami, yakuza, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images3.alphacoders.com/942/942720.jpg
  alt: Yakuza 0
---

Probably one of the most interesting _dual protagonist_ games I've played in my life, and definitely the game I'd rate as the best Yakuza game in the franchise - which is interesting, because this was a prequel game!

The plot is infamous - starting off with a young, fledgling Kiryu getting accused of a crime he didn't commit in his Yakuza family, where the supposed _crime_ he committed quickly becomes a very hotly contested piece of land as he gets pulled into a very bloody turf war and a grab for power in Kamurocho. At a similar time, we alternate and play as fan-favourite series character Majima in a much more serious lens as he works to pay off his debt to get back into the same Yakuza family Kiryu's a part of in Sotenbori, and watch as he unravels into the unserious, crazy, bitter and yet oddly mature character we know him as when he gets involved with a girl who's connected to that aforementioned piece of land. The brilliance of the plot is that we never see Kiryu and Majima interact despite both of them being directly connected to the overall narrative and the outcome of the plot, which is how they preserved Majima and Kiryu not really knowing each other that well in Yakuza 1. Like ships passing by in the night.

A game with many antagonists, several of whom we see return later on in the series. Shibusawa was Kiryu's main villain as the one pulling the strings behind all of the events in the game to try and take over the Dojima Family. While we never really got to understand his character very deeply by the end of the game and is where I think this game suffers a bit because of it, he was a compelling character in what little we saw of him and his final boss fight was iconic. Kuze was brilliant as well as a secondary antagonist - we fight him **five** times in the game, but the interesting part of his character was that every fight against Kiryu showed his own progression in skill, his fighting spirit, and his _pureness_ as a Yakuza who was only in the game for the love of it, not for money or power. The fights themselves? Well, uh, I hope you like fighting him! All I'll say with that.

With Majima, I'd argue Shimano and Sagawa are his two main villains as both treated him as a pawn and systematically broke him down in an attempt to create obedience, though Majima also tackles the same gang of villains Kiryu takes on in the end. The scene of him realizing that the past few years had completely stripped away what little agency/free will he had left to the point where his attempt to rebel and save Makoto instead of killing her didn't end up mattering at all because Shimano ultimately banked on the fact that Majima didn't have it in him to assassinate someone was really brutal, and is one of the best scenes in the series in my opinion.

Of course, the siblings are the central characters in this game and a large part of why the plot is so highly praised. Tachibana is the major sibling in Kiryu's side of the story where we see him help Kiryu pick up the pieces after he gets kicked out of the family and helps to build him up in exchange for his help in securing the empty lot, and his death was of course tragic as he gets murdered right before he can meet reunite with Makoto again. Very likeable guy who didn't deserve what happened to him, but not a particularly deep one, just sad.

And who doesn't love a tragic love story between a mad dog and a blind girl? Makoto Makimura was a fantastic character as someone who had been searching for her older brother for years including being blinded while doing so, and Majima falling in love with her innocence and wanting to save her from her plight in spite of knowing that everyone he gets close with ends up meeting a horrible end was very well done. The most tragic part of their story was that she never learned who it was who saved her after she recovers her sight and Majima appears before her in the epilogue, before distancing himself from her. If only he wasn't Yakuza 😔 We don't see any closure for this until Yakuza 2, unfortunately.

I loved seeing Nishiki and Reina in this game too, was really nice to see them in happier times before the events of Yakuza 1 happen. I think they set up the plot point of Nishiki's inferiority complex to Kiryu pretty well in this one, though it was mostly subtle and he was still a very loyal friend here.

The gameplay in this one is elite. Just like with every Yakuza game, running around the city and doing dumb sidequests for completely unserious random NPCs is a large part of the fun of it. Sotenbori and Kamurocho in the 80's was super interesting to explore. The two major minigames in this one - Real Estate for Kiryu, Cabaret Club management for Majima - are probably two of the most well done in the series, especially the Cabaret Club. A lot of minigames in this one too, whether you decide to kill time with arcade games, bowling, hitting baseballs at the range, RC Car races, disco, karaoke, or more, there's always something to do in both cities.

Combat was good - I think both Kiryu and Majima having wildly different fighting styles helped make the game more interesting to play. I do think there was some element of jank to it unlike some of the newer games and the money system to get upgrades was very simple but I think was effective. I found the enemies in this game to be less... spongey/beefy HP wise compared to the Kiwami games, but some longer fights were a chore. Overall it was fine.

Some banger tracks in this one! I loved all of the disco tracks in this game, but Friday Night and I'm gonna make her mine are the most iconic ones to me. As for the main game itself, Trouble Shooting Star is one of my favourite, and the final boss theme Two Dragons is excellent as well.

A plot that wove in and around Kiryu and Majima's actions and ultimately ended up shaping who they were in the future games chronologically, Yakuza 0 arguably had the best story in the series along with overall the best gameplay. I think combat eventually gets a bit repetitive, the main villain is a bit weak and while thematically fighting Kuze five times was interesting, the fights themselves were pretty uninspiring. Not a perfect game by any means but still a great one.
