---
title: Fallout New Vegas (2010) (PS3/X360/PC) (Obsidian Entertainment)
description: 10/10 - One of the most ambitious RPGs released of its time, and on a time crunch too!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-21 21:50
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [obsidian, fallout, 10/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://preview.redd.it/ml43xoim0stb1.jpg?width=960&crop=smart&auto=webp&s=20fda50099d9be63d4876666145805a6b50155bb
  alt: Fallout New Vegas
---

Interestingly enough this game did not get good reception when it dropped. The power of Doc Mitchell's spinning head and crashes, I guess...?

All jokes aside, this game did have a lot of issues with bugs and crashes on release - I deifnitely don't blame any person who played it at that time to not have a very favourable view of this game. But I do think they're doing themselves a disservice if they don't try playing it again.

New Vegas is a very unique game. It felt more in-line as a sequel to the originals Fallout 1 and 2 with the amount of returning characters, factions, and easter eggs and references there are to those games. Yet it's also a great game as a standalone; you don't need to know all of these things to appreciate it, it holds up very well on its own.

The writing in this game is incredible. From the moment Benny put two bullets in your head in the intro cutscene to the Battle of Hoover Dam, I was hooked from minute one. The amount of branching sidequests with different endings and ways to solve them are massive, and what's really crazy is how the vast majority of them play into the ending for the faction they represent that you'll get. Your decisions genuinely matter in this game, and some might even come to help you out or oppose you in the final quest. Some people joke about the ending slideshow, but I really enjoyed seeing all of the different decisions I made and how they affected the world at the end.

What's particularly unique about this game is that there is no main villain after the first act. YOU get to choose who the villain is. You can team up with the NCR from Fo2. Or a billionaire who survived the nuclear war and owns the Strip currently who's only interest is holding Vegas and eventually getting to the moon. Or a guy named Caesar and his wannabe Roman Empire that happens to control most of Southwest USA. Or you could decide, fuck it, I'm taking over Vegas!

There are way too many characters, but the companions/side characters you can recruit in the game are wonderful. Cass, Veronica, Raul and Arcade were very memorable companions with their own storylines, and Boone is one of the most interesting characters in the franchise with how his PTSD from serving in the NCR and the atrocities he committed caused him to spiral and let it control his life.

Honestly, the world itself is the weakest aspect of it. Vegas pales in comparison to both DC and Boston in Fo3 and Fo4, and I honestly didn't have much fun exploring the desert. That being said, it was very interesting to see Obsidian's take on post-post apocalypse like how the NCR aren't really as good as they seem to be on the surface, while Bethesda focuses more on post-apocalypse.

Gameplay mechanics are much improved. Iron sights, more gun variety, weapon mods, and the faction reputation system and disguises especially were awesome. I think it's criminal Bethesda never brought the disguise system back.

DLCs are all fantastic. Honest Hearts gave a look into how tribal life can not only survive, but thirve in a post-apocalyptic environment, and gave us one of the best side-stories ever in the Survivalist/The Father in the Caves - I recommend reading the wiki entry on him, there's nothing I can do but salute him. Old World Blues was hilarious with the voice acting, and the twist of Mobius becoming a villain to stop the Think Tank from experimenting on post apocalyptic America was fantastic and ironically hilarious. Controversial opinion maybe, but Dead Money is probably my most favourite DLC ever in a game - the major characters in this expansion and how they tied the theme of letting go beautifully for all of them (including yourself with the gold bars at the end, haha) was done perfectly. I wasn't huge on Lonesome Road and the story it told, but it did give the Courier a backstory with Ulysses and some more information on what your character was up to before Vegas.

Inon Zur did a nice job with the score in this one, though it is hard to think of an iconic theme in this game. If anything, the haunting song from Dead Money - Begin Again - is the one that stands out to me.

It's a shame that Obsidian never got to fully flesh out the Legion with the timecrunch they had to pump out this game (around 1.5 years?), but they delivered an incredibly ambitious game within a short timespan and in my opinion, passed with flying colours.
