---
title: Metal Gear Solid 3 - Snake Eater (2004) (PS2/PC) (Konami)
description: 9.5/10 - The iconic prequel of the main series!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-26 21:55
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [konami, metal gear, 9.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://igm.gg/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.igm.gg%2FPROD%2F202409%2Fb01a1a75%2Ftablica-dlja-cheat-engine-upd-25-10-2023_1698415701_892251_7_11zon.jpg&w=3840&q=75
  alt: Metal Gear Solid 3 - Snake Eater
---

Probably the most famous game in the series. Who doesn't love a James Bond-esque plot stealth game?

Plot was strong, and it's nearly on par with MGS2 for me which is saying something. A very different genre than the other MGS game though - MGS2 was kinda more of a political commentary while this game told the best 'story' in the series, in my opinion. What made this game so interesting was that in the previous games, Big Boss was mentioned as the evil warmongering overlord of the series. Yet this game turns it on its head, and shows you the perspective of BB as a rookie in the mission that made him a legendary soldier in order to see his philosophy, morals and how he started to devolve into the villain he is in the modern day MGS with David/Solid Snake.

For the plot itself, the prologue of the game (Virtuous Mission) sets up the main story where we see Jack/BB and his mentor, the legendary American soldier _The Boss_, attempt to extract a Soviet scientist who's on the verge of creating a breakthrough in nuclear tech at the height of the Cold War. The Boss however, chooses to defect to the Soviets and the main plot of the game eventually leads into Operation Snake Eater, where Jack is tasked to kill his old mentor and succeed in extracting Sokolov, the scientist mentioned earlier. The twist of the plot and why it's so good is the reveal that the Boss never defected, but rather was tasked by America to become an inside agent in the Soviets and secure a slush fund to cripple the USSR economy without alerting the Soviet higher ups and accidentally kicking off WW3. The insanity comes when America tasked Jack to assassinate the Boss, where they knew she'd succeed in her part and sent him to clean up the _evidence_ because it would appear that an American soldier was simply just killing off a traitor.

As the main villain of the game, Volgin was probably the weakest part. I didn't really like him that much since there wasn't that much substance to him, just a slightly over the top villain committing war crimes in Soviet Russia. Just another Tuesday! A little detail that kinda gets overlooked that I find hilarious was how it was implied that this horrible, sadistic, rapist of a man was an absolute sweetheart to his gay lover who happened to look like Raiden from MGS2. Interesting guy for sure.

The Boss on the other hand as the _secondary_ antagonist was fantastic. Her relationship with Jack/BB is one of the most interesting and complex things in the series (lovers? mother/son? teacher/student? all three?) and her dream of a world without borders where war isn't needed and passing that vision down to Jack was a fantastic setup for the future games in the series. The reveal that she never betrayed America and her mission being to quite literally die by BB's hand and tarnish her own legacy to allow him to become the next great American hero was tragic. It setup why BB walked down such a dark path later on in the series, with him never forgiving the American government for doing that to her. Someone who loved her country enough to sacrifice everything for it with barely even a _thank you_ from the government as they clearly did not value her at all as seen later in the series, the Boss is one of the best characters in the series.

There were a lot of other great characters. I thought EVA was a decent femme fatale-style trope character - funny how they pushed the romance but I don't think BB was ever interested. Young Ocelot was awesome to see as a reoccurring character in the series in every game, and this game kinda explains why Ocelot is so loyal to BB after yet another iconic Ocelot triple-agent twist where he was actually working for America. Interestingly enough, I don't think it was ever revealed explicitly to either the Boss or Ocelot that they were biological mother and son. Makes you wonder if either of them knew when they interacted, I think there was a chance she did but he definitely didn't, which makes her death even sadder.

Gameplay was a nice step up from MGS2 and incorporated some survival gameplay with eating and blending in with the environment. It honestly does the stealth mechanics as one of the best in the series but at the cost of having to go through multiple screens to change out BB's outfit, which got very old after a while. The set pieces are some of the best in the series, with Groznyj Grad and Tselinoyarsk being the highlights of the game. Some stuff like the bike chase sequence was terrible. I personally didn't hate the escorting EVA part but I do know it's the most infamous part of the game for others, and not in a good way. Other than that though, awesome. Banger boss fights, as per usual with Kojima games. Wouldn't be an MGS game without some sort of supernatural element to it!

Oh boy. Snake Eater is quite possibly the most iconic song (lyrics-wise) in the series. Cynthia Harrell killed it, it was exactly like a Bond track. I do think it's about The Boss' situation with her mission or BB's thoughts on The Boss, but I read a very compelling theory that it's actually Ocelot's feelings towards BB, and it would make a lot of sense, honestly. The other memorable track from the OST was Virtuous Mission.

Incredible game, it did suffer from a weak villain slightly and some other minor headaches, but that doesn't detract from the fantastic story, twists and characters in the game. I think MGS2 plot is larger than a game while MGS3 only simply tells a great story, which is why I rate MGS2 higher. But it is still one of the best games ever made, for sure.
