---
title: Chrono Trigger (1995) (SNES/DS/PC) (Squaresoft)
description: 10/10 - One of the most iconic JRPGs in the history of the genre.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-23 21:36
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [square, chrono, 10/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images4.alphacoders.com/658/658185.jpg
  alt: Chrono Trigger
---

My favourite game of all time! Though I do have to be objective about it, and put it a bit lower than some other incredible games. Fun fact, my username (arclmpulse) comes from a triple tech in this game! Heheheh.

Chrono Trigger was not an incredibly generation-defining game like some other titles with either a mindblowing story that really make you think about it or revolutionary gameplay mechanics. But it was a very fondly remembered game in the JRPG space, and not just because it was a collab-event of Toriyama (Dragonball's mangaka) doing the character design/art, Nobuo Uematsu/Yasunori Mitsuda doing the OST and Sakaguchi (Final Fantasy's creator) directing it.

What Chrono Trigger did that was so unique in this genre was that it delivered a story with near-perfect pacing and replayabilty with its multiple endings depending on some of the choices you make when you reach the endgame. At no point in the plot did I ever feel bored, or found myself skipping dialogue for the sake of "going through the motions," I was hooked, I wanted to know what happened next in the story, I didn't want to put this game down. A relatively straightforward time travel plot with a group of characters from different time eras trying to stop the apocalypse from happening, Chrono Trigger ultimately delivered a beautiful message - you should always try and change what you can control in your life and to accept that you can't always control everything.

Talking a bit more about the characters, all of the main ones had great arcs barring Crono, who was the silent protagonist of the crew. Not too much to say about him honestly, he's the least interesting guy on the squad. Marle and her arc of growing up and maturing to become the next Queen, Lucca's motivation of being an inventor stemming from her trauma of being the reason why her mother is handicapped in a freak accident, Frog/Glenn's regret of being unable to save his best friend/mentor despite being the more talented swordsman of the two, Robo and his existential crisis as a robot, Ayla uniting the tribes, and even Janus and learning to let go of his past. They were a charming cast of characters, and I appreciated each and every one of them.

Lavos is techically the main villain of the game, but Lavos is kinda just the apocalypse that the crew is trying to avoid. I'd consider Queen Zeal to be the main villain of the game, and I thought she was very well done. Her descent into insanity from getting drunk off power was a little disturbing, especially after the reveal that Janus/Magus is her son and a large part of the reason why he's also messed up in the head.

The world and its setting was fantastic, I loved exploring all the different time periods and seeing what was different about them. The fact that items maturing over time periods as a gameplay mechanic was cool too. Combat was a unique take on Square's tried and true FF style, with techs replacing more classical magic and other miscellaneous abilities. It was always interesting to see how your characters could link up and what combination attacks worked best on different enemies. If you've played other JRPGs, you should take to it like a fish in water.

The OST of the game is one of my favourite ever, Wind Scene is one of the most beautiful pieces I've heard in a game. Some other iconic hits were Corridors of Time, and Secret of the Forest, if you'd like to check them out.

All in all, it's hard to pinpoint what Chrono Trigger truly excels at, and I think that's part of why it's such a special game - the fact that it did everything it said out to do well, and didn't try to be anything more than it had to be. Plot, gameplay, music, characters, self-aware humour, it has it all. A game that has such an incredible amount of charm and a strange feeling of melancholy whenever I replay it, it's an absolute masterpiece with a rather hopeful take on humanity.
