---
title: Resume/CV
description: An overview of my past experience.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-13 20:13:00
categories: [Career]
tags: []
pin: true
math: true
mermaid: true
---

Interlocking System Designer
ALSTOM
Nov 2024 -
Alstom

    WIP

Mechatronics/Test Automation Engineer
VueReal
May 2022 - Dec 2022
VueReal

    Designed, modeled, and fabricated PCB test jigs for 3.1" and 10" display panels with tolerances of sub 5 thou - currently still being used for quality control.
    Ideated and prototyped mounting systems for optical test equipment with automatic focus adjustment based on the type of display - reducing testing times by approximately 30%.
    Designed and assembled ESD-safe transport cases and showcase boxes for AR displays and necessary electrical components - used by the company at SID 2022 and CES 2023.
    Developed Image Processing algorithms to calculate yield of working LED’s on backplanes with 99.9% accuracy in Python.
    Wrote and executed test case scripts to filter out false positive LEDs and further increase the accuracy of the algorithm.
    Constructed a database of color gamut of LEDs in image, and calculated wafer performance by accuracy - interfacing with Google Drive for accessibility for Process Engineering Team.

Project Engineer
University of Waterloo
Sept 2021 - Dec 2021
UW

    Led a team of 3 to design and prototype a 6 DoF pick and place mechanism for a faculty project.
    Programmed microcontrollers and servo motors to direct rotation of the arm and actuation of the gripper.
    Designed and assembled the gripper.

Engineering Assistant
WATiMake Machine Shop
Jan 2021 - Apr 2021
WATIMAKE

    Reviewed and edited over 100 engineering drawings to be sent in for Laser Cutting, FDM/SLA 3D Printing, and CNC milling.
    Operated Epilog Helix Laser Cutter, FormLabs Form 2 and 3 3D Printers, and Cubicon FDM 3D Printers for custom prototyping requests.
    Designed and modeled a four-stroke cylinder engine to simulate the kinematics of the model. Designed in CAD, then exported to Simulink/Simscape for a client project.
    Wrote a script to automatically take 3D Print requests from company website, converted to gcode using the slicing software, and created a backlog of files ready to be loaded - cutting downtime of 3D printers and elevating workflow efficiency by 25%.
