---
title: The Witcher 3 - Wild Hunt (2015) (PS4/PS5/XB1/XBX/NSW/PC) (CD Projekt RED)
description: 10/10 - Very complete game, from start to finish.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-20 19:18
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [cdpr, witcher]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://wallup.net/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/123090-The_Witcher_3_Wild_Hunt-video_games.jpg
  alt: The Witcher 3 - Wild Hunt
---

One of the best games I've ever played.

All-star lineup of characters in this game, mixing in fan favourite game-canon characters like Roche, Thaler, Letho, Ves, etc with the usual book cast. Yen and Ciri finally make their appearance in the video game series too, acting as major characters in the game.

Writing is up there for one of the best I've seen. The ever present theme of "the lesser evil" from the Witcher series can be found in many quests. Bloody Baron quest line was a masterclass of how to diverge plotlines based off your decisions, and have them converge at a critical point. This can also be found in Novigrad and Skellige to an extent, though not as memorable. The battle of Kaer Morhen was also a masterclass on making your choices matter throughout the game with who decides to show up and who doesn't. You can even change Lambert's fate if you bring Keira over! I've always appreicated games that give you the freedom on giving you multiple things to do and letting you complete them in any which order, and it's very obvious that CD Projekt Red has always been a believer of that.

Eredin and the Wild Hunt are probably the weakest parts of the game. And it wasn't like they were bad villains, but the victory over them kinda just felt... underwhelming? To elaborate further, they've been hyped up for so long as the harbingers of the apocalypse in the series, yet defeating Eredin felt very hollow and rushed, mostly because Ciri immediately rushed off to deal with the conjuction of the spheres, which I suppose is what was what the Wild Hunt being present was signalling, heh. I actually think the rumour that Avallac'h was supposed to be the final villain but was scrapped during development would've been a brilliant twist at the end with his motivations and I'm a little sad CDPR chose not to go through with it.

Geralt is his usual self, deadpan sarcasm as he gets forced into the trolley problem way too often. They did a great job with him in this one, love his little one-off voice lines and comments. A lot of people call Yen a bitch, but honestly I always thought her sassiness and pettiness was hilarious. I've never really been a fan of Triss as a book fan, but this is probably my favourite iteration of her in the games. Ciri too, was a great add. The father/daughter moments we got from her and Geralt were very wholesome, loved it.

Combat was fun, though it got a bit repetitive once you figured it out with the dodge-dodge-strike sequence. Still though, one of the most fluid and responsive sword combat systems in a game I've ever seen, it was objectively pretty impressive for its time.

The locations were fantastic. Novigrad, Velen, Skellige were all fun to explore, especially Skellige. Velen as a war-torn swamp, Novigrad as an unstable region about to explode into war, Ard Skellige having their own share of political turmoil and having some beautiful set pieces on the islands, there wasn't a single region I really disliked. All very distinct from each other.

That's not even touching the DLC. Hearts of Stone told one of the best stories in a game I've seen; I actually preferred the plot of this expansion to the main story. Iris and Olgeird are two of the best characters in the game imo, which is saying something considering all the incredible characters already. Gaunter o'Dimm was a terrifying fucking villain, the soul wager at the end had me stressed all throughout the sequence. I was actually nervous to see the game over screen, thought they would do something more unique with it. It was a beautiful story of how you should always be careful for what you wish for.

Blood and Wine could've been a separate game entirely. Toussaint is probably my favourite world in a video game, ever. I never wanted to leave that expansion, everything about the world was magical to explore for me. It helps I've been to the Spanish/Italian/French countryside and that's exactly the kind of scenery where I'd want to retire at. Plot was not as good as HoS or the main game, but it was fine and served its purpose. Detlaff and Syanna were nothing special as villains, though I do like the potential ending where the sisters reunite and bury the hatchet. Neatly wrapped up everything. Also, if you romanced Yen in the main game and read the books, I'll say that the epilogue of the DLC is one of the most satisfying conclusions to a character ever. Geralt finally retires with Yen 🥹

OST was absolutely beautiful. Some of my favourites include Fields of Ard Skellig, Kaer Morhen, You're... Immortal?, Blood and Wine, and especially The Slopes of the Blessure. Always brings a weird feeling of nostalgia everytime I hear it.

Witcher 3 did so many things right, and the few things they did "poorly" were things that might be considered average in other games. A game that had very few weak points, it's a game that has to be rated 10/10 for me.
