---
title: Uncharted 2 (2009) (Naughty Dog) (PS3/PS4)
description: 9/10 - Man versus Yeti! Who wins?
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-17 21:23
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [naughty dog, uncharted, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images6.alphacoders.com/567/thumb-1920-567415.jpg
  alt: Uncharted 2
---

Second installment of Nathan Drake's story!

I think the plot in this one is pretty solid. The start to the game is one I don't think many can forget, what better way to learn how to platform in Uncharted than to climb up a train that's about tip over on a cliff in the Himalayas? But before this event actually happened, the setup was quite good, with Nathan getting contacted by two of his "rival" treasure hunters, his ex Chloe Frazer and Harry Flynn to try and break into an Istanbul Museum. Of course, they then stab Nate in the back when he realizes that their goal was to try and find the place where Marco Polo's spent his lost years, rumoured to be the golden city of Shambhala, rumoured to house an incredible treasure of immeasureable wealth. The plot evolves from there as we learn Chloe seems to want to defect from Flynn's side and join up with Nate. Elena joins in Nepal as well as a part of her efforts to report on the political uprising and gets tangled up in the mess too, as they ascend into the mountains. And in classic Uncharted fashion, they find the treasure, which is the city! But end up destroying it...

Although Flynn was kinda the more personal villain to Nate after getting him stuck in jail for a bit after the Istanbul incident, the main villain of the game is actually Lazarevic, who's Flynn's handler/boss for the Shambhala job. He's probably the most simple and straightforward villain of the series - he wants Shambhala because of the super serum that it housed, not much more depth to him other than him being diabolically evil and owning a private army. The cool twist of the game was that the Yeti looking guys in the Himalayas (well, they're muscle freaks wearing yeti clothes as we find out) were all people who found Shambhala and drank the super serum, losing their minds and becoming guardians of the city, trying to protect outsiders from reaching it too. So it is a funny thought that meathead Lazarevic would've also become one if we didn't just end him right then and there, LMAO

Flynn was a bit more interesting of a character, I do think he's an ass and will lie/cheat to get ahead in life, but he also kinda seemed stuck with Lazarevic and couldn't escape him. Of course, Flynn nearly killed Nate, Elena and Chloe with a suicide bomb attempt, so I guess he was an ass to the end?

And Chloe was... I dunno. I think she was a decent character and also interested in getting back together with Nate but it was also kinda obvious that she had no shot in the love triangle. She kinda represented Nate's greediness and love for adventure, while Elena brought out better qualities in him, so it does make sense that Nate's basically already moved on from their relationship.

Elena's great in this one too, I think their banter was a lot funnier and it is kinda obvious they were in some sort of situationship between U1 and U2. The ending cutscene put a smile on my face, haha.

Gameplay is great, they fixed the damn bullet sponges from U1! Enemies actually die quicker now instead of eating 5 headshots in a row! Gunplay is more or less the same, stealth is a bit more viable but still not particularly great. Platforming and the puzzles were really fun in this game, I think only U4 did a better job with the terrain and some of the platforming mechanics, but even then I think I had more fun climbing the mountains in Nepal than running around in the jungle of Madagascar.

OST was decent. Gates of Shambhala is a pretty iconic theme in this game.

It was all-in-all, a very solid game. It was a pretty straightforward plot with good gameplay mechanics and platforming, a beautiful and interesting setting, and a weak villain as the only major complaint. U4 of course built upon the framework this game laid out, but U2 was a fantastic game in its own right, definitely give it a fair shake.
