---
title: The Legend of Zelda - Tears of the Kingdom (2023) (Nintendo) (NSW)
description: 9.5/10 - Ah yes, my favourite bob-the-builder sandbox engineering simulator. Princess Zelda who?
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-08-05 1:14
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [nintendo, zelda, 9.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images.alphacoders.com/127/1272163.jpg
  alt: Tears of the Kingdom
---

The best way I can describe this game is BotW on steroids.

I think the story in this game was more interesting than it was in BotW, which is not a particularly high bar but it was still decent regardless. It mostly followed a similar structure to BotW with Zelda going missing after the introduction of the game. I liked all the main regions' stories that were going on - YunoboCo was hilarious in particular, him acting like a horrible CEO when he was wearing the mask was super based. Wish he stayed like that, haha. And I did like the twist that Zelda is a dragon in this one, never saw that coming in a million years. Kinda wished she stayed as one though, would've been more interesting to me.

Ganondorf returns yet again in this one after his absence in the prequel. I found they recycled a lot of his old lore iterations (sealed, was friendly to the kingdom, betrayal, using a puppet Zelda, etc etc.) and tried to mish mash him into one. He's a simple villain, and not particularly interesting or present throughout the game though he does set up the conflict well enough with the gloom and him using zonai tech (funny, because wasn't he warring with them...?) to try and rule the world.

Gameplay completely stole the show, which is saying something since BotW already stepped it up. The zonai devices in particular added a completely new dimension of playing the game, and they were even thoughtful enough to incorporate an autobuilder system - creating bikes, planes, floating hovercrafts, etc. Zooming around the world with it is the most fun I've had playing a video game since Morrowind where I created spells to jump halfway across the map. It's absolutely gamebreaking depending on how creative you are, and I loved it. The way you solve puzzles in this one is amazing too, there are so many ways to cheese the game if you think outside the box, and I do think that's the way it should be in Zelda games.

Three worlds to explore in this one, though the skylands are notably more barren than the surface/depths, which is a shame. I have absolutely zero idea how Nintendo were able to cram all three worlds with barely any loading zones between them without blowing up the Switch, some technical wizardry in this game. The depths in particular was so fun to explore because we've already seen this iteration of the surface map from BotW - having a _dark world_ being underneath the surface of the map was pretty genius. I absolutely LOVED the amount of references there are to other games in this one, Lurelin Village being a nod to Outset Island from WW, Master Sword having a Fi reference to SS with its SFX, all of the outfits, a lot of the location names, etc.

Dungeons are a weak point again, the ones that were here were far too straightforward/easy. Never was a fan of the shrines replacing it too, and unfortunately make an appearance again. The shrines themselves are pretty great fun though. I think the bosses in this game were pretty fun, but not particularly difficult.

I think the sidequests in the game were done better than they were in BotW, but not that much better. A lot of them still feel like glorified fetch quests, but there are more interesting ones that lead to useful rewards or have more interesting stories attached to them like the Great Fairy questline or the newspaper one. And of course, we love the Yiga returning too, haha.

Just like BotW, I think going into this game with the expectation of a great plot and classic dungeon crawling like the majority of the series' games tend to be would be a major mistake. Treat this game like a sandbox similar to Minecraft, and you'll find a world that the devs poured a lot of love and time into to try and let you have as much stupid fun as possible. Honestly, I think ignoring the main story and just screwing around in the world is the way you should play the game. And at the end of the day, isn't the point of a game to have fun?
