---
title: Resident Evil 2 Remake (2019) (Capcom) (PS4/PC)
description: 9/10 - Mr. X gon give it to ya!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-09 13:32
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [resident evil, capcom, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://external-preview.redd.it/jkX7KoisMWrvlsOcNXNrmHOXum9gMxeuvaOIlgfFzLo.jpg?auto=webp&s=34341142d8841b029efe7db59bc45bdb15bcfbf8
  alt: Resident Evil 2 Remake
---

Download the mod of "X Gon Give It To Ya" that plays whenever Mr. X is close by. It might be my favourite mod in all of gaming LMAO 🤌

RE2R is often touted as one of the best gaming remakes for its time, and one of the greatest horror games of all time. And I think it's a fair statement to make.

The plot more or less is the same as the original RE2, with a bit of narrative changes here and there. For example, the Ada and Sherry sections in the Leon and Claire routes respectively weren't in the original, while they added some nice variety to the story here in the remake. As such, the plot is strong. Rookie Cop Leon S. Kennedy meets RE1's Chris' little sister, Claire Redfield, and they get trapped in the Raccoon City incident as they have to fight to escape the plague infested city. The only things that they did change that I didn't like very much was how disconnected Leon and Claire's routes were compared to the original, and I do think they removed some of the Birkin family lore.

The gameplay is the reason why this game is so highly praised. RE7 already saved and rebooted the franchise with a new engine, but RE2R took the combat and movement to a whole new level with how fluid it is. It is genuinely _fun_ to fight in this game, even though the most optimal way to play RE is often to not fight, haha. The RPC district building is one of the most iconic set pieces in the franchise, and the puzzles in both routes are fantastic - lots of backtracking and revisiting required, yet things often don't really stay the same when you pass through it, if you know what I mean. Two routes and a technical 4 scenarios with Leon A, Claire B and Claire A, Leon B means that you need to play this game 4 times to get the maximum amount of lore on the story. Yet the game is fairly short - around 8-10 hours, less if you rush it. It's one of the most satisfying things to see, when each subsequent run takes less and less time to complete.

Characters were strong. Ada makes her first appearance in the series here, is present in Leon's run and she's pretty based. Though I don't really get why Leon is so obsessed with her after this, not like she really gave him much to work with. Sherry makes her first appearance in the series as well, is the companion in Claire's run, and she's also great. Getting chased around the house by Chief Irons was uh... yeah.

Villains... hard to say. Mr. X is pretty much the main villain on Leon's run though he appears a few times on Claire's run. He doesn't exactly speak, but RE2R gave him a bigger role in this game as he stalks you around the RPC and is probably the most infamous one in the series. I found him just invasive enough, terrifying on the first run, and a complete annoyance in subsequent runs. Fun to fight him for sure. On Claire's run, I'd say William Birkin is the main villain. I kinda felt sorry for him at becoming a grotesque monster, but at the same time it is kinda his fault that Raccoon City turned into a zombie infilled mess as one of the main researchers on the t and g virus. Doesn't help he was an absent father in Sherry's life...

All in all, the game was very good. RE2 already was iconic, and RE2R took it to a new level in a modern engine. Though I think RE4R has superseded it, RE2R was the blueprint to making it successful. Highly recommend a play, even if you don't like horror games.
