---
title: The Legend of Zelda - Wind Waker (2002) (Nintendo) (GCN/Wii U/NSW)
description: 9/10 - You are a pirate!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-12 20:55
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [nintendo, zelda, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images.alphacoders.com/443/443323.jpg
  alt: Wind Waker
---

The Zelda franchise always liked to experiment with weird changes and gameplay gimmicks historically, but this game might've taken the cake on how _different_ it was to the rest of the franchise up until this game's release.

The plot is one of the better ones in the series. Link being an island bumpkin from some backwater island and eventually banding up with some pirates and getting wrapped up in a plot of Ganondorf's classic world domination after his little sister got kidnapped for possibly, maybe, potentially being the reincarnation of Zelda was executed well. Tetra (the actual Zelda reincarnation) was a nice twist on Zelda's classic personality, with her being the super tomboy captain of the aforementioned pirates and always sassing out Link. I think her dynamic with Link as Tetra was way funnier than when she slightly changed after realizing she's Zelda.

One of the better helper characters appears here in the King of Red Lions, aka your boat. Of course he's a lot more important as we realize later on that he was the old King of Hyrule and Tetra's great ancestor. I found him to be a good character, though you could definitely say he was a bit dry at times.

Ganondorf is of course, the main villain here. I think this is one of his better iterations honestly, he appears early in the game and is a constant presence, he basically acts like a mob boss, he wants to execute Zelda so he can obtain the power to raise the underwater lands up to the surface and restore Hyrule to what it used to be in previous games. Of course, that'd also kill everyone living on the islands too...

Gameplay is some of the strongest in the series here. Combat is really smooth - I think TP was a bit more technically impressive with the combat moves but Wind Waker's combat feels much more fluid if that makes any sense. Some of the most fan favourite items in the series exist here with the grappling hook and the original parachute from BotW in the deku leaf.

The world is nuts, I have no idea how they managed to fit so much content in a relatively limited game. It genuinely is like an open world game even though it was meant to be played relatively linearly, sailing around the ocean is so much fun. The boat mechanics with the wind too is incredible. And you can fight other "pirate" like enemies with the moblins and bokoblins here too, it's great fun.

Dungeons in this game are definitely a strong suit. Dragon Roost, Tower of the Gods, and Earth Temple are all quite iconic if only for their settings. And while the bosses in the game aren't the most peak in the series (and you have to refight them again near the end of the game), I think everyone loves the Molgera fight in the Wind Temple, along with the final showdown with Ganondorf of course.

I think where I have to take off points is that really dumb pieces of triforce quest they make you go on right before the end of the game. I guess you could argue the flipside of the open world argument - many of the squares on the map were completely empty, and you could argue that's lazy game design. And while sailing is fun, it does take years to get to where you want often. The fast travelling only helps so much. I will say the remastered version on Wii U and Switch addresses some of these issues, but I can't really bump up the score of this game because of changes they made nearly a decade later.

OST is quite famous in the series. Dragon Roost Island, the sailing theme, Molgera's Boss Theme (the chicken?), so much more. Iconic and for good reason.

All in all, you get to live out a pirate fantasy in a series that was meant to be about exploring and solving puzzles in dungeons. And I will say this - of all the Zelda games up until this point, no other game aged quite as well graphically. You could easily boot up the original version and it would still look timeless with the cartoony graphics. What a great twist on the typical land locked Zelda games!
