---
title: Yakuza Kiwami 2 (2017) (SEGA) (PS4/XB1/PC)
description: 8.5/10 - Koreans in video games? Unheard of!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-20 20:35
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [SEGA, yakuza, 8.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images5.alphacoders.com/101/1018193.jpg
  alt: Yakuza Kiwami 2
---

You know, I do kinda find it funny how little presence Korea has in video game media. Japan does so much with anime and whatnot, even China gets some love from devs. Korea... we have Maplestory?

The plot of the game is quite convoluted and interconnected, so bear with me here. Following Yakuza Kiwami 1, Kiryu chose to turn down the role of Chairman of the Tojo Clan in Kamurocho (Tokyo). Kiryu wants to hand off his leadership role to the rightful heir to the clan, Daigo Dojima, who was the son of the previous leader. Daigo is a bit aimless and wants revenge on a man in a different clan in Sotenbori (Osaka) called the Omi Clan for humiliating him - Ryuji Goda. Ryuji Goda is the heir to the Omi Clan, and has grand ambitions to overtake Kiryu's legacy as the Dragon of Dojima by teaming up with the Korean mafia, AKA the Jingweon. And lastly, the Jingweon want revenge on the Tojo and to essentially blow Kamurocho to ashes while crushing the Yakuza clan there.

Phew, that's a mouthful. The plot generally follows this circlejerk as it slowly gets revealed throughout the game why the Omi and Jingweon are trying to crush the Tojo and I think it executes on it rather well, weaving some other important plot points as well. Namely, just who is Ryuji Goda, and why is he adopted? How is Kaoru Sayama, another important character in the plot connected? Why is a detective trying to murder any and all Koreans in Kamurocho, does he think this is WW2? And what did exactly happen all those years ago for the Tojo to piss off the Jingweon?

There's a few villains in the game - a couple of higher ups in the Omi who also want to see the Tojo crushed - but ultimately I'd say Ryuji Goda is the main villain of the game. Menacing, flashy, a bit unhinged and one hell of a fighter, he's very much Kiryu's equal in every aspect. What's pretty funny is that, if you played Yakuza 0 before, you would've seen him in a sidestory there as a kid who got in trouble with bullying kids years older than him, haha! But he was a pretty complex character with his own set of morals - as it's revealed he's one of the few survivors of the Jingweon massacre where the Tojo clan wiped them out - but ultimately shows he doesn't care about his past by the end when it's revealed and ultimately only looks forward at his future which I think is quite admirable. He's also Korean!

Sayama is a very fascinating character - as the daughter of the other survivor of the Jingweon massacre, we see her at the start as a very driven, tough on crime cop in Sotenbori that hates Yakuza. But she changes as she meets Kiryu and gets tangled up with her past in Kamurocho and eventually has her own identity crisis when she begins to realize that she may have been born into a family of crime. The reveal that she was Ryuji Goda's half sister and Detective Kawara's daughter (share the same mother as Ryuji, though Ryuji isn't much older of course) and not the child that survived the massacre was fantastic. I wasn't particularly big on her romance with Kiryu, especially with what happens in 3 where she just packs up her bags and is never seen again. But I did think it was sweet.

And of course, her father was a great character as well. While we see Detective Kawara as a bit of a hard-ass, ends justify the means type character, we also eventually see that Kawara did everything he could in his power to try and protect his daughter from getting in involved with the Yakuza/Jingweon mess. Him reuniting with his daughter shortly before he gets killed was a classic Yakuza style tragedy, of course.

Gameplay... dunno. Combat feels really... floaty? Like Kiryu is gliding on ice or something, the movement just felt really odd. I think the world is really fun to explore in HD with basically little to no load zones. Levelling up being tied to eating food getting you experience was... interesting. I didn't hate it but it did feel a bit odd. The main minigame of YK2, Clan Creator, felt like a real slog to get through. I love RTS games but this one was just... blah.

I didn't speak too much on what I didn't like about the plot too much earlier, but the reason why I hesitated to put Ryuji as the main villain was not a good thing - his story relevance is mostly at the start and ending of the game. Jingweon and Omi leaders make the middle part and while they do orchestrate the whole "bombing Kamurocho" plot, it's hard to say any of them were particularly interesting or compelling? And that's not to mention how messy the plot is in the middle of the game. Once we realize what the Omi and Jingweon were up to, the game straightens out and the plot gets great again, but until then, meh.

And listen, I love having Korea rep in games, but the voice acting was so tragic. They should've just brought in native korean speakers to do the korean parts 😭😭😭

Overall, it was a good game. Plot got messy, but characters really shined in this one. I'd say it's one of the better Yakuza games for sure.
