---
title: Fallout 1 (1997) (Black Isle Studios) (PC)
description: 8.5/10 - Mayyyybeeee you'll think of meeee, when youuu are all ah-lone...
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-23 21:56
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [black isle, fallout, 8.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://wallpapercave.com/wp/wp13554917.jpg
  alt: Fallout 1
---

One of, if not the most influential CRPG of all time!

Plot is probably the strongest one out of the main titles in the series, interestingly enough. You, the Vault Dweller, are kicked out of your bunker decades after nuclear war ravaged America because the Vault's water pump is failing. And of course, no other bum can do it, so you go out there. And of course, you stroll through different civilizations, fix or ruin towns, determine the fate of many across the wastes. And eventually, you run into one of the most interesting conspiracies ever - these violent green mutants you've been running into infrequently and perhaps a bit more frequently the further south you went wasn't some natural species in this new world, but rather the work of someone who's aim is to replace all of post-apocalyptic America with these "evolved" humans.

The Master is still the greatest Fallout villain of all time, and I don't think Bethesda will ever trot out anyone to top him in the series. Hell, Obsidian couldn't either with New Vegas! A very unique villain that kinda looks like Jabba the Hutt funnily enough, and someone who genuinely believed that humanity cannot survive if they stay as they are in the wasteland. Thus he sought and found a solution - by dipping humans into a vat of a pre-war experimental serum known as the FEV (forced evolutionary virus), he can _evolve_ these humans into a higher race, known as the super mutants. I find him to be one of the most interesting villains ever because from his perspective and his morals, you can argue he is doing his best to try and put humanity in the best shape possible to traverse radioactive lands and to ultimately survive. Further, many super mutants are docile to each other, and rarely get violent to their kind, which is something humans obviously can't get away with. And I do think the way you fight him is genius - if you have enough speech and found out the research that super mutants are sterile, you can get him to realize that his plan has no substance to begin with as creating this race would also end humanity.

Of course you're a blank slate of a character. And I will say as a bit of a complaint, unlike FO2 who had so many unique characters, FO1 barely had any. The Master is of course the ultimate exception, but I honestly had so little reason to care about most of the towns you pass through, as well as the sidequests you do.

Gameplay/Combat is your standard isometric top-down CRPG. This game is absolutely notorious for being difficult - fighting rats in front of the Vault is going to be a living nightmare. But this game was really unique in that there's almost always more than one way to solve sidequests, main story quests, confrontations, etc. And I found that level of freedom to be so incredible and revolutionary honestly.

I've already touched on a couple but there are more flaws to the game. The biggest one if you're a newcomer to the series and will 100% be a turn off is the time limit. You have around 150 in game days to find the water chip and get back to the Vault before the super mutants find Vault 13 and get you the game over screen. That's right, you can fuck yourself if you miscalculated how much time it'll take to traverse back with no solution. Based honestly, but... not good design, definitely not.

I will have to say, the ending of the game pissed me off. I fix all these problems in the wasteland, save mankind in California, fix the stupid water purifier, and the Vault overseer kicks me out of the house and tells me GTFO for possibly inspiring a new generation of people to leave? FOH! At least _Maybe_ by the Ink Spots played during that sequence, one of my favourite songs of all time.

The story is one of the best I've seen in a game honestly. Very simple, straightforward, and has a legendary villain. Yet there are too many flaws in the gameplay/side content for me to rate this game any higher. It is one of the most influential CRPGs of all time though, the freedom and choices it inspired as well as being one of, if not the first post-apocalyptic game was revolutionary. I think if you can handle the difficulty, you're in for a treat. Definitely use a guide on your first run though, don't want to lock yourself out of the game...
