---
title: It Takes Two (2021) (Hazelight Studios) (PC)
description: 9/10 - Marriage counselling in a platformer?
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-08-17 13:13
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [hazelight studios, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://wallpapers.com/images/featured/it-takes-two-l2xz4tkaq1d4na24.jpg
  alt: It Takes Two
---

One of the best platformers I've played - highly recommend playing with a friend. Very entertaining when you accidentally, or purposefully grief each other. Haha!

It Takes Two was an interesting game. Plot was solid with an interesting premise - a marriage falling apart the effect it has on the children as the main characters Cody and May get transported to a bizarre fantasy land of their own home and learn how much their fighting was affecting their daughter. Cody and May were forced to put aside their differences, work together, and work through their relationship woes throughout the game. Some weird plot points like the whole Cutie thing, and I did find the plot to drag a bit in the middle of the game, but I do think it was good overall.

Cody I thought had a good arc. A stay at home dad who feels inferior to his breadwinner wife and also feels like his own sense of individuality is slipping away as he begins to rediscover hobbies that he had long past forgotten (gardening). Him learning how to communicate properly to his wife and *stand up for himself* if you will was done pretty well.

May was similar as we also see her reconnect with one of her hobbies (singing), but we see her perspective as the one who is providing for the family and looking down on her husband - gender roles were a bit reversed here, haha. I think May was meant to be a bit more unlikeable at the start as she definitely was a bit of a control freak in the relationship, but her learning to compromise was also done well too.

I don't think divorce is necessarily a bad thing but it was clear that May and Cody loved each other dearly and just needed some time to work through it. The ending of the game where we see them and their child happily walking off into the sunset hand in hand was a great way to tie things together.

The gameplay was insane - I've never played a platformer as smooth or fluid in movement as this game, it was incredible. Extremely fun to screw around in the game and figure out what the physics/mechanics of the game engine lets you get away with. The puzzles were fantastic too, lot of them did require a bit of a brain but most were straightforward when me and a buddy went through it. Loved the little mini genres that the game forces you to play through in certain sections like the hack and slash portion, the sailing/boat mechanics, shooting, rhythm, etc.

It was a solid game with a simple story and moral, and definitely showed that the platforming genre might still yet have more potential than what we've already seen. A bit slow at times but it was a charming game, highly recommend.