---
title: The Legend of Zelda - Ocarina of Time (1998) (N64/GCN/3DS) (Nintendo)
description: 9.5/10 - Revolutionary in the history of video games.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-29 19:23
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [nintendo, zelda, 9.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images2.alphacoders.com/519/thumb-1920-519206.jpg
  alt: Ocarina of Time
---

One of the most iconic games of all time, and some will say this game defined the entire industry.

I think there's some merit in that, and it definitely deserves its hype. Plot was revolutionary for the series - so many games in the series that come after in the Zelda franchise kinda just rip the structure of this game for their story. The standard _find three things, plot event, find a bunch more of things, final boss fight_ got normalized throughout the series after and I won't deny it's a winning formula, it gives a lot of structure to the game and a nice curve of difficulty.

Speaking from a lore perspective, this game first introduces the story behind the triforce, which is a pretty important part of the series and sets up why Link, Zelda and some form of Ganon are always linked by fate together. The time travelling plot made sense, and they transformed it into a cool gameplay mechanic revolving around some dungeons being needed to be visited both in the past and present towards the end of the game, which was cool. And of course, this game is the critical point where the story diverges into three timelines in the series, which does make Ocarina of Time one of the most important games.

This is probably Ganondorf's most iconic appearance as a foreigner bringing good tidings but in actuality secretly plotting to take over the land. He was a good enough villain, but a little absent at times. We can see the effects of what he did after he "wins" in the game but we don't really ever see him very present in the pre or post timeskip portion of the game until the end, which is where I do think he's a bit weak as a character in the overall story there. But who can forget that final scene of climbing the stairs to their tower before your lovely match of dead man's volley with him? Not me, that's for sure.

What made this game so iconic by many fans was the gameplay. It was one of the first games to fully flesh out a 3D world that you can explore, but also fight in. Z-targeting was revolutionary and a lot of third-person games today have a system similar to it of locking onto an enemy. Dungeons stepped up their game from the 2D era - a couple of the most iconic dungeons in the series are in this game. Water Temple anyone? And while the world was fairly barebones, it was their first attempt at making an open map with Hyrule Field, and I think they succeeded big time. While it was empty, I think they populated enough side content that opened up between dungeons to still make the world feel full. And the bosses in this game were incredibly distinct, I loved how unique they were.

OST is quite iconic. Gerudo Valley, Lost Woods, Forest Temple, Zora's Domain, All of the Ocarina themes and more, Koji Kondo put up a masterclass in this. Highly recommend a listen.

It was a game that introduced a lot, and revolutionized a lot. I loved it, but I do feel like the story and villain felt a little too... simple. There was no element of the game that impacted me as much as most of the other 10/10 games, which is why I couldn't justify putting it there. But it was a very important game in the history of the industry, and that in itself deserves merit.
