---
title: The Legend of Zelda - Twilight Princess (2006) (Nintendo) (GCN/Wii/Wii U)
description: 8.5/10 - Inside Link, there are two wolves. One is not locked in, and the other is equally not locked in.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-20 21:17
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [nintendo, zelda, 8.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://cdn.wallpapersafari.com/40/71/S0Cgdc.jpg
  alt: Twilight Princess
---

Probably the most "mature" Link we've seen in the series so far, and honestly the oldest one we see in the entire series!

The plot was fantastic - very arguably one of the best in the series. Link being a farmer out in a backwater hick forest village living a peaceful life was probably what he expected to do for the rest of his life. But that all changed when the twilight monsters attacked... Kidnapping all the kids in the village, Link heroically tries to rescue them! Only to get turned into a wolf and taken away. From there, he meets another character from the twilight realm, Midna, who kinda only seems interested in using him. And after freeing him, they embark on a journey to save both of their respective worlds from converging into each other.

The main villain is technically Ganondorf again (lame.) but the villain for about 80% of the story is actually Zant - the current King of the Twilight Realm. He was a fantastic villain, great origin story of being this servant no one took seriously, gained a lot of power after Ganondorf got banished to the Twilight Zone and bestowed his blessing on him, usurped the throne from Midna, and decided to try and merge the worlds together to create one, big beautiful shadow world. Extremely menacing throughout the game, we actually learn just how much of a lunatic he really is once you finally have your showdown with him in the Twilight World. I do wish he was the final boss and they didn't just rely on Ganondorf being the big bad that used him to get back to the normal world again, I think the plot would've been so much better if they did that.

Midna is the helper character in this game as the Princess of Twilight, and she is easily my most favourite one in the series and it's not even close. Sassy, treats Link like a dog (he is for a chunk of the game, ha!), and when she realizes how weak she is in her imp form after Zant crushes her in that cutscene and the sequence of Link desperately bringing her near dead corpse back to Zelda to save her is the turning point of their relationship. Peak character development. Of course, we learn she's also a baddie as we find out after she gets uncursed in the final boss fight. Link really fumbled her when she broke the mirror connecting their worlds at the end 😭

Interestingly while you might think Zelda is the Twilight Princess and Midna faceitiously calls her that after surrendering to Zant, Zelda is actually not a very present character in this game! We see that she's more of a queen than a princess in this one, exiled to a tower after surrendering to Zant's twilight minions. Sacrifices her a part of her soul to heal Midna halfway through the game, then we finally restore her after defeating the puppet version of Zelda at the end. I do think her and Link's dynamic in the game was one of more knight and queen than anything closer than that, which was a nice change.

Gameplay was... mixed? On one hand, the dungeons and boss fights in this game are some of the most iconic ones in the series. Arbiter's Grounds and City in the Sky are in my top 5, and I don't think there's a single bad dungeon in this game. The puzzles and the layout of each one is unique and very well done. But at the same time, the items you get in this game are sometimes so, so useless after the dungeon you get them in. Like the boomerang. Or the spinner. And the dominion rod. Even the ball and chain unless you cheese some enemies with it.

Combat was incredible though, can't deny that. WW and the Switch games for sure had smoother combat, but in terms of pure swordplay, I think this game takes the cake. Bonus points that the best 1v1 fight in the series is the final boss of the game. Once you get the power to freely switch between wolf and human form, the game feels like it opens up so much more too. And the map was pretty fun to explore, I always felt like this one had the most unique amounts of variety in its locations though the switch games may have surpassed it in that regard. Though I will say, large parts of hyrule field do feel pretty empty.

My issues with the game other than the items is the Ganondorf thing coming in. Why even lean on him as a crutch Nintendo? You already made a goated villain the game, you really didn't need to shoehorn him in again!!!

And also, the graphics in the original game are kinda... rough. Wind Waker by comparison aged so much better than TP did. I get they wanted to go for a bit more realism in this game, but man, seeing the GCN games compared side by side, it's really no contest.

OST was good - I think the most famous track in this game is the Hyrule Field theme, though Midna's Lament is up there too.

All in all, TP was a game that aged a bit poorly looks-wise, but I do think it's overall one of the better Zelda games. It also was a bit unoriginal with copy pasting the OoT plot structure (do 3 things, plot event, do a bunch more things, more plot events!) but it was a formula that worked for the game honestly. It was my first Zelda game, and I do look fondly back on it. Endorsed!
