---
title: Uncharted 4 (2016) (PS4/PC) (Naughty Dog)
description: 9.5/10 - Finale of Nathan Drake's story arc, and very much the best game in the series.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-26 14:37
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [naughty dog, uncharted, 9.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://wallpapers.com/images/featured/uncharted-y5wt54otbfmw8wxy.jpg
  alt: Uncharted 4
---

I think this game got robbed from GOTY in 2016, somehow Overwatch won over it. Not that I'm putting down Overwatch or anything, but, yikes...

Plot was outstanding. Starting off with the lore of the Drake brothers chasing after the last thing their mother was researching when they were kids before she passed away (Henry Avery's treasure/Gunsway Heist), then them reuniting long after Nate decided to retire from "the life," and how Nate risks his marriage to go on one last crazy adventure with his older brother who's supposedly in debt was a fantastic setup for the game. Especially since his actions have consequences later down the line, the scene where Elena confronts Nate in Madigascar was so raw, and incredible. I liken it to someone finding out they've been getting cheated on, but for Nate it was him having to confront the idea that he still loved the thrill and excitement that being a treasure hunter, and directly chose it over his own wife. It all ended up okay because Elena also missed the life too, but seeing their relationship get tested after 3 games of it developing and also seeing them work through their issues on the island where she saves Nate's ass yet again was beautiful to see.

Sam Drake was a bit of a controversial add to the series. I think he did kinda just drop in out of nowhere, which is a lot of people's main issue with him, though they did do a decent job at incorporating him into the game's lore. The reveal that he wasn't in debt to a Latin American crime lord, but rather the debt being towards an old partner of the Drake brothers (Rafe!) was done well but fell a bit flat to me. It was rather Nate realizing that the brother he once idolized was now just enabling his old habits was more impactful for me. But that also just made him a complete plot device, which kinda sucks because I do think Sam as a personality was an interesting character. I was glad that Sam wasn't a complete villain though - he truly did want to go on this treasure hunt not because Rafe was blackmailing him, but rather to reunite with his brother and see the one mystery the Drake family was never able to solve through.

Rafe Adler is the best villain in the series. His inferiority complex to the Drake Bros of being a nepo baby making him so desperate to find this treasure so he could claim he accomplished something in his life was perfection. Absolutely unhinged as well, but it felt far more personal than any other villain in the series. The ending to the game was perfect as well, mirroring the story of Henry Avery and Thomas Tew. Nate realizing that his real treasure is the people around him in his life is exactly why he survived on Avery's burning ship, while Rafe couldn't treasure his own life enough to let go of Avery's ship just like the old two pirate captains.

And speaking of which, the epilogue was a nice detail too. Nate and Elena becoming licensed salvagers to find deep sea treasures was a great way to close off their story. Treasure hunting, but legal!

Combat and gameplay is the best in series, stealth is 100% viable in this game, and there's a good chance you can take out the majority of enemies in an area without getting detected if you're really good. The gunplay is much improved, the enemies feel very well balanced now with their health bars and combat habits, it was perfection. The platforming also took a step up with the climbing spike and just how fluid the movement is, it's so fun to just run around and swing on ropes when you're in those sections and act like tarzan.

OST was great - bringing in Henry Jackman will tend to do that, I will say. I loved the combat themes - Cut to the Chase and New Devon are so ridiculously good, especially the latter. When the low brass kicks in, I swear I start shooting better in those last chapters.

Now for the bad. Nadine was an... interesting character in U4. She's outstanding as a protagonist in Lost Legacy but as a secondary antagonist in this game I think she falls flat. And of course, I already mentioned my issues with Sam as a character.

Uncharted 4 had an outstanding story with some minor gripes. I debated putting this as a 10/10 game, but I did find that it lacks some sort of _it_ factor the other 10/10 games I had ultimately have. It is still one of the greatest games I've ever played, though.
