---
title: Horizon Zero Dawn (2017) (Guerilla Games) (PS4/PC)
description: 9/10 - Robot Dinosaurs!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-09 14:44
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [hzd, guerilla, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://4kwallpapers.com/images/walls/thumbs_3t/19062.jpg
  alt: Horizon Zero Dawn
---

What the hell is a ~~Polar Bear~~ ROBOT DINOSAUR doing in ~~Arlington Texas~~ COLORADO??? 😭😭

Horizon Zero Dawn was a big part of the 2017 open world craze. And I do think it was one of the better, if not one of the best games of that generation... well, with some issues.

Plot was interesting. Starting off as an outcast of the tribes because she had no mother in a matriachical society and instead was raised by an adoptive father, Aloy attempts to force the local tribe in post apocalyptic America to acknowledge her... but it goes awry when the wild robot dinosaurs become frenzied and extremely hostile, as she goes on a journey to figure out how to stop them and learn exactly what happened to the world and ultimately herself.

I think Aloy was a well written character with a clear story arc/growth. I don't think her personality was particularly compelling and was honestly kinda annoying how it kinda felt like she had the need to have the last word whenever you chatted with NPCs, but she does open up by the end and become more humble as she begins to care more about the world and why she was born, which is nice. When the tribe that outcasted her her whole life realized she's the _chosen one_ AKA a genetic clone of one of the scientists (Elizbeth Sobek) who found a way to restore biomass on earth after the creation of the robot dinos beginning to consume everything on earth and her being disgusted at them switching up on her was one of the most realest moments ever in a game, haha.

Going a bit more into the plot, I thought the GAIA lore was quite interesting. GAIA (what Elizabeth created) was a whole system meant to recreate Earth after the Faro plague incident and of course each "arm" having its own function in the system helping with this. Yet a mysterious signal causing each "arm" to run amok and gain its own sentience was quite genius, and I think opened up a perfect expansion of future games.

Sylens was a fascinating supporting character, and his dynamic with Aloy was hilarious. I think the reason why both of them couldn't stand each other was because their personalities are basically the same, which is kinda hilarious to think about. Obviously not a good guy and clearly having his own agenda for helping out Aloy in stopping the crisis

The main villain of the game is HADES, an AI that was a part of GAIA who's basically like Ultron. Went rogue from the system Elizabeth created and simply went about its business to do its function - destroy the world by frenzying the robots to let GAIA recreate it. Of course, it doesn't realize GAIA isn't connected to it anymore, sadly. Though honestly, Ted Faro is kinda the real villain of the game for having these dinosaur robots programmed to recreate, reproduce, expand 24/7...

The gameplay and combat are out of this world. Movement is absolutely insane, combat is incredibly fluid, hacking into the robot dinosaurs and taming them is a genius gameplay mechanic, and the archery mechanics are super, super fun. It definitely gives Breath of the Wild a run for its money which was released in the same year, and honestly might even be better than it.

Map was fun - it basically covered Colorado, Wyoming and a bit of Nevada. A lot of different set pieces and environments, and traversing the map was fun. Finding any large animal robot and taming it so you can ride it around is great fun! And for the collection enthusiasts, lots of lore memories to collect if you want the full story of what happened pre apocalypse!

As for the DLC (Frozen Wilds) set up further north in the map, I thought it was actually quite interesting. HEPHAESTUS is the villain here, disconnected from GAIA as well who realized that humans were getting too good at killing the dinosaur robots and decided to jack up its creations to 11 and was basically turning the Frozen Wilds into a combat testing ground. It was a fun DLC for sure with a much higher challenge than the base game, but nothing more deep than that.

My main complaint with the game might actually contradict everything I praised about this game so far. While I think the mystery sci-fi elements of the plot are good, and the plot itself is very well written with a very good lead character... I almost feel like there's no memorable moments in the story? It lacks a bit of soul I find, and I'm not entirely sure why. Like it feels like a perfect 3D printed model of an ideal open world game, but somehow lacks emotion or any true investment in the world. It's a game you play and respect, but not really a game you play and truly love I feel.

A game that's a little dystopic and depressing, yet also represents hope that something broken can be built again. It's a great game overall... but I can't help but feel like it's missing something.
