---
title: The Last of Us (2013) (PS3/PS4/PC) (Naughty Dog)
description: 10/10 - A beautiful story about found family, and how far a parent is willing to go for their child.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-23 22:08
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [naughty dog, tlou]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images5.alphacoders.com/394/thumb-1920-394511.jpg
  alt: The Last of Us
---

One of the best stories a game has ever told, in my opinion. They even made a TV series for it!

TLOU was an emotional ride from start to finish. Joel's development from a gruff, antisocial "smuggler" who refused to get close to Ellie because of his trauma of having his daughter die in his arms to the doting father he once was before the epidemic and ending up kidnapping humanity's best chance for a cure because he couldn't let Ellie go is one of the most infamous character arcs in all of video games. A very selfish decision, but also a very human one. The consequences of his actions? Well, they're explored in TLOU2.

Ellie's own backstory and development was honestly depressing a bit once you play her DLC, as she sees and experiences too many horrible things from such a young age. Her as a character throughout the plot of TLOU was well done as well though, as she slowly opens up to Joel in her own way and her own fear/trauma of being abandoned by her loved ones coming to surface quite frequently throughout the game.

A lot of characters came and went, and often met tragic ends. Tess had great chemistry with Joel, but sacrificed herself and ended up creating a lot of the early tension between Joel and Ellie. Henry and Sam's deaths were devestating - it was obvious what was gonna happen as soon as Sam asked Ellie those questions, yet I still wasn't ready to see that scene where he turns. Liked Tommy just fine in this game. And if you've played Left Behind (DLC), then you'll know about Riley, and man, just so sad. Poor Ellie 😢

TLOU had villains for each mini arc, though I suppose you could definitely argue that Marlene is the main antagonist of the game. She wasn't given much time to shine as a character, but you could definitely tell she was conflicted by having to kill Ellie to get the tumour out of her brain and every scene she was in was impactful, which is a rarity in most games. You could honestly argue she was morally a good person and her cause was righteous as she was only trying to find a cure with the Fireflies, which is what makes the ending sequence of TLOU so interesting, as Joel is very much a villain as he brutally murders dozens on his way out of the hospital. Overall a good character.

I think more people will remember David instead as a villain. He was very well done, the setup with his gang in the university in Colorado to the reveal that his people were the ones who attacked them at the campus, to the fact that he was leading a gang of cannibals and was somehow _jealous_ of the bond Joel and Ellie shared... yikes. The boss fight in the restaurant was iconic and for good reason, peak fiction.

Gameplay was fantastic. Melee is a semi-viable option with Joel being built like a Navy SEAL, shotgun and the rifle are probably what you'll default to. Very similar to Uncharted's gameplay, unsurprisingly. I believe this game built off the first 3 Uncharted games' combat, and you could tell that stealth really got a revamp for this game - it's much more viable in this one than the other three Uncharted games, and is often recommended if you can help it. The crafting and upgrades system was fantastic as well, just great all around.

The set pieces in the game were awesome. Boston and Pittsburgh were really fun, the suburbs in both cities are arguably the most fun areas to explore in the game. The campus in Colorado as well as the resort where you take on David's gang were both fantastic. And of course, the last stretch of the game going through SLC, Utah was great too, if a little linear. Seeing the giraffe was fantastic.

Last of Us had some great themes, Gustavo Santaolalla did a great job of making it as bleak and dreary as possible. I think the main theme and Vanishing Grace are standouts of the score.

A game that focused a lot on the darker elements of humanity like cannibalism, slavers, smuggling and more, it's honestly not the zombies that are the monsters in this game, it's the people who are still normal and you begin to realize that towards the end of the game though it's not really a major focus or theme in this game. Focusing on what society would likely devolve into if there was a global zombie epidemic with one of the most emotional plots I've played through, Last of Us truly was a masterpiece, and I do believe it is Naughty Dog's magnum opus.
