---
title: Fire Emblem - Path of Radiance (2005) (Nintendo) (GCN)
description: 9/10 - Fire Emblem... in 3D? Where are the sprites???
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-13 22:35
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [nintendo, fire emblem, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images2.alphacoders.com/743/thumb-1920-743567.jpg
  alt: Fire Emblem - Path of Radiance
---

As the first game to introduce 3D models and animations to the series, Path of Radiance was the first attempt by Interactive Studios to try and modernize the series a bit. And while I do find it sad that this game never got as much love as Awakening or Three Houses (it's my first FE game, heh), I do think this is one of the best games in the franchise.

The plot is probably the best _linear_ story in the series. I do think 3H's overarching plot was better, but as a relatively simple plot, this game was a lot more coherent. Ike starts off as a fledgling mercenary in his father's company, and tragedy strikes as the neighbouring country (Daein) invades and the Greil Mercenaries are tasked to protect the last heir to Crimea (Elincia), Ike's father gets hunted down by a general of Daein, and Ike begins on his quest to find help all over the continent and reclaim Crimea.

I think Ike was a great main protagonist. His growth from being a hotheaded, very green kid to becoming the general of the liberation army within one year was peak development. I liked the whole company as well, Soren (definitely gay for Ike.) was a standout character as well. Elincia was a great female lead as well as someone who also grows on the journey and learns the weight of having to lead a country, and I do find it kinda interesting that they kinda set her up as Ike's love interest in this one but it's pretty clear by FE10 that it was just platonic between them.

The racism subplot they bring into this game with Laguz (animal humanoids) and Beorc (human) was quite interesting and honestly pretty touching. Most of the human countries we see in the game (Crimea, Daein, Begnion) all have varying degrees of racism to Laguz. Of course most of the Laguz nations are similarly racist back to humans as well. And funnily enough, both sides hate mixed Laguz and Beorc people, known as branded. Ike was kind of used a criticism of this, as his and his father's philosophy always was very merocratic, and also is a very straightforward person. And we do see this in his actions, as time and time again he stands up for his Laguz and branded allies, even trying to force nobles and aristocrats to apologize for the slavery and other atrocities they committed against Laguz. While this isn't really the main plotline of this game, it does become a very important plot in FE10, which is why I shout it out here.

Main villain is the King of Daein, Ashnard. While not particularly a deep villain - FE10 actually expands on his lore a bit more, we don't get much from him here - he was straightforward enough to fit the plot. World domination! I do kinda find it funny that he's not a particularly racist guy though he's from one of the most racist countries, just a guy who believes in strength above all else. He mirrors Ike in that way, funnily enough. As a boss fight, he's very fun to fight on hard, you'll have to plan out your attack sequence in advance, otherwise he might just cook you, haha.

And the Black Knight as the secondary antagonist was kinda fascinating. We see him duel with Ike's father before he executes him, and he seems pretty invincible wherever he goes... but we don't get much more lore from him after that chapter Ike has a 1v1 with him in. Which is one of the best fights in the series as an aside. FE10 is where those questions are answered. Anyone notice his body shape looks like Zelgius, by the way? 😉

Gameplay was... well, honestly, I think IS downgraded the English version's difficulty, I heard the Japanese version of easy is our normal, and their version of normal was our hard. I didn't particularly find this game to be that bad even on hard, so I guess I'm Japanese...? It was a nice step up though, going from 2D to 3D. The battle animations were so wonderful to see in 3D. Other than that though, no big changes other than adding a magic triangle similar to the weapon triangle and getting a bank of battle exp from your performance in the previous map that you can top off your party members with, which is kinda nice.

I wouldn't say there were that many incredible maps raved about in this game, but I do think 9-8 (Despair and Hope) is an underrated map in the series, defend the castle type maps are always my favourite objective and this map on hard was actually a really fun challenge because of how limited your characters probably are at this point. 9-17 (Day Breaks) is one of the most infamous maps in the series, it's a four part map and you get extra reinforcements after completing each stage. Once you start, can't stop! But I will say, overall map quality-wise, I think this game is probably one of the, if not the best in the series. There are very few _bad_ maps in this game, it feels like the difficulty curve is perfect and I don't think any of the levels had some outright weird or egregious design.

OST was good. Crimea Marches is a great battle OST, and the final map theme (Congregation of Ambition) is also fantastic, very intense.

While I do think FE16 edges out this game in being a _better game,_ I do think FE9 had a much more easier to digest story, the maps overall are better and the flow of the game was very smooth with no dead zones. It was my first FE game so I'll always be biased towards it, but I do think it is easily a top 3 game in the series, and the gold standard of how an FE game should be set up. Definitely give it a fair shake!
