---
title: Fire Emblem - Three Houses (2019) (Nintendo) (NSW)
description: 9/10 - Harry Potter meets strategy fantasy land war game!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-08-10 22:22
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [nintendo, fire emblem, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: /assets/img/fe16.png
  alt: Fire Emblem - Three Houses
---

FE16 was a lot of people's first foray into Fire Emblem. While I do think this game might be a poor segue into the franchise because of how _different_ it is from the rest of the franchise, I can confidently say that this game is _just_ barely the best one in the series.

The plot of the game was very strong. The world (Fodlan) was very well setup with the start of the game showing three nations dividing the land, and the Church of Seiros being in the centre of it all to train up the future generation of lords and soldiers on neutral territory for each country. Byleth/My Unit as the main protagonist was silent, but the lore that Byleth was the reincarnation of the goddess who once roamed Fodlan and how it tied into the overarching plot was well done. On the surface level, this game mostly revolved around the _neutral_ church and the atrocities it committed in its history in order to stay in power - namely the crests and how they systematically tied social status to it. The major plot point that made this game so infamous was the reveal halfway through the game that Edelgard came to the Church in order to wage war on the continent in the hopes of shattering this system and to bring down the Church, as the story splits from here.

Edelgard (Black Eagles) is probably the most singlehandedly divisive character in the entire franchise, and the vast majority of this game's discourse revolves around her decision to invade the other two countries. In fact, I think she's probably the most well written character in the series for one question alone. Was she justified in invading the entire continent to be under her rule? In my mind, I think she was and her cause was just to create a meritocratic society. Had she not done something this drastic, Rhea and the Church would've kept the status quo, and more oppression down on the lower classes would've likely happened for future generations had Byleth not emerged. That being said, Edelgard is very imperialistic/autoritarian if you are not there to rein her in on her route as we see from the other routes, and I think there is an argument to be had that she never even attempted to try and limit casualties or find a more peaceful solution. And of course, there is the fact that you basically are helping the main antagonist of the game by siding with her...

Dimitri's route (Blue Lions) is interesting not for the plot but rather Dimitri himself - while Edelgard's route looked towards society as a whole and how change cannot happen unless you attack the root of it, his route was far more introspective and highlighted his own PTSD of being the sole survivor of a genocide and why he cannot forgive Edelgard on her conquest. While his route isn't as thought provoking, his descent into madness with hallucinations of the dead, the atrocities he committed while mentally ill and the journey he went on with the party to realize that no one is beyond redemption if there's a willingness to seek change and that the hope of a nation was still resting on his shoulders was very well done.

Claude's route (Golden Deer) was fascinating not for the Edelgard vs Dimitri drama, but rather the lore behind Nemesis, the Church and how the crest system came to be with TWSITD. While I don't think Claude himself was a particularly deep or interesting character, playing Golden Deer is the route that gives you the best overview on the events prior and during the game at the cost of not touching Dimitri and Edelgard's drama.

And of course, you can side with the Church. It's an interesting route the game goes through as you end up having to fight both Rhea and Edelgard as well as TWSITD. Despite the former two characters dying, it is the only route where you fully resolve the TWSITD threat and can confidentially say you changed Fodlan. I do consider it the true ending.

3 major final bosses! You already know my take on Edelgard, and I do find it a bit tragic that Edelgard was the girl Dimitri befriended all those years ago and he was the one who had to put her out of her misery in the Blue Lions route. Rhea is the final boss on the Black Eagles side, and her general craziness and unhingedness fully gets revealed as she shows that she only created the church to try and resurrect Sothis AKA Byleth and loses it when her _mother_ now sides against her. Lastly we have Nemesis - the one who slaughtered Sothis in the past, resurrected under TWSITD's command. A very simple guy who wanted to live life freely and without restriction, it is funny that most JRPG games have you fighting God by the end, but this time _you_ are God, fighting against the guy who killed the past incarnation of Byleth, haha.

The real main villain of the game was Thales and TWSITD (Those Who Slither in the Dark in case you wondering all this time) as the ones who orchestrated the vast majority of the events in the game including the two genocides, creating the relics for the church to use, posting up spies in all three nations, turned Edelgard into a ticking time bomb, and are also the ones who helped Edelgard on her plight. Funnily enough she thought it was the Church who put the extra crest in her, but in actuality it was TWSITD all along. I think Thales was far less compelling than any of Edelgard/Rhea/Nemesis as he simply wanted world domination and I don't really love how everything was just explained away as TWSITD doing it all, but the way in which he did it was pretty genius and diabolical. Had all four sides fighting each other.

Gameplay was a complete revamp from other Fire Emblem games outside of the maps/between levels. The interesting bit was that you can reclass any of your characters into whatever you want with the academy system. Make them all swordsmen, archers, warriors, knights, a mix of these, maybe even give them all magic and make your house actually like Harry Potter. The game very much felt like a JRPG to me despite the series mostly being a strategy game, and it felt refreshing. The Church being a hub and letting you explore it with the side quests in between major missions was really cool, building off of what FE15 did with their own exploration zones.

Here's my issue with the game, and why I can't rate it higher than a 9 despite it being the best game in the series to me. Every single route means you play out the first half of the game identically no matter what route you take. That's right! You have to play the same dozen chapters or so ~(12-15 hours of content at minimum) **four times!** I'm not sure if it was laziness or lack of budget that they weren't able to give each route it's own unique missions, but damn. It also doesn't help that a lot of the maps felt very recycled across the game - I don't think there are that many interesting or unique maps. That being said, 16-7/16-17 (Gronder Field) is iconic with the three way fight going on though I don't rally rate it highly within the context of the series. I do think 16-E (Imperial Palace) as well as 16-E (Caledonia Plateau) for the Blue Lions and Golden Deer endgame were good and 16-17 (Talitean Plains) for Black Eagles is the best map in the game and one of the best in the series.

OST is one of the most famous in all of Nintendo-land. The game's main motif (Fodlan Winds) and the upgraded final boss version of it (Apex of the World) are fantastic. God Shattering Star for Nemesis/16-E Golden Deer is quite possibly the most iconic track in the game and is one of my most favourite tracks ever. Funeral of Flowers, Tearing Through Heaven, Chasing Daybreak, Between Heaven and Earth, there's too many iconic tracks. The entire OST slapped, they really did go all out.

FE16 took a chance on the convoluted plot with multiple routes to go down and I think they hit the mark very well. I do think some aspects of the game were a bit undercooked like the map design or some plot elements like TWSITD kinda undermining the major conflict in the game, but overall it was a game that tried something different in the series, and they were well rewarded for it. Very good game, and I think is the best in the series.
