---
title: Metro Exodus (2019) (4A Games) (PS4/PS5/PC)
description: 9.5/10 - Ending of Artyom's story! (Probably.)
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-08-03 2:42
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [4a games, metro, 9.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images3.alphacoders.com/991/991929.jpg
  alt: Metro Exodus
---

Extremely emotional game, and likely the ending of Artyom's story in the franchise.

Plot was a step up from the previous two, it was incredible. Artyom desiring to live on the surface following the events of 2033/Last Light and the game kicking off with him, his unit with the rangers, his wife Anna and her father/Ranger Leader Miller accidentally going on an adventure across Russia to find a place to settle was a brilliant way to kick off the game. And from the team's goal originally being to find an old Russian government nuclear shelter to get new instructions on the _war_ that was still going on on the surface, to eventually having to adapt and simply find a place to settle after that plan goes bust and they realize the war ended long ago, the dynamics between the major characters on the Aurora and how they changed across the game was very, very well done.

There is no main villain, the _villain_ is that Anna's lungs are deteriorating after falling into the ammo waste storage in the Volga shortly after leaving the Metro! It made for an effective conflict between Artyom, Anna and Miller, I definitely sped through the sections of the game since I felt pressured to save her on my first run. Doubly so too, since Anna is one of the best partners I've seen in a video game, Artyom found a good one. They've come a long way since their interactions from Last Light, I liked the rabbit reference with Artyom's doodle too.

Miller is one of the best written secondary characters I've seen in a game. Going from an arrogant, condescending de-facto leader who couldn't admit Artyom was right about there being no war across Russia still and throwing shade on the fact that he didn't approve of Artyom's actions after marrying his daughter, to naively leading the party into a cannibal death trap in Yamantau, to eventually admitting that he was wrong about the decisions he made while leading the party and that Artyom was the son he always desired in Novosibirisk broke my heart, especially after he sacrifices himself to let Artyom save his daughter. I definitely cried at the end during the final car drive, I have no shame in admitting that.

As for the other major characters in the game, I liked the Aurora crew members, thought the banter between all of them was well done. I don't think Duke, Damir and Alyosha were particularly interesting characters but they were all likeable enough for me to want to save them all.

There are two endings for the game. I think both are well done, though I also think they made it a little too easy to get the _bad_ ending of the game where Artyom also dies from radiation if you don't know what you're doing. But the canon ending is very clearly the one where Artyom is able to save all of the members (mostly by being respectful of the locals and not killing as many people as possible in Volga/Caspian/Taiga) and he sees Miller at Lake Baikal in a hallucination. And it was well done, it just felt right for Artyom to take control of the rangers.

The world was brilliant. Volga, Caspian, Taiga and Novosibirsk/Dead City were all stunning set pieces. I do find it ironic that the game focused so much on leaving the metro, only to end up... in the metro in the Dead City. The open world zones in Volga and Caspian were perfect, I think the hybrid style of open world zones is the best way to do it and there was plenty of content to do in order to secure the good ending in each zone. Freedom to explore, open enough to hide lots of stuff but compact enough to not feel overwhelmed.

The DLCs were also fanstastic. Two Colonels followed the story of Kirill and his father in Novosibirsk right before the radiation got everyone, and broke my heart a second time at the ending how Miller reminisces on how being a father is difficult, before he goes off to save Artyom and give him his share of anti-rad :( Sam's Story follows Sam in Vladivostok as he looks for a way to get home to San Diego and I do think it's canon that Sam sinks the submarine with nukes in it, I feel like it was in-character for him to give up his personal chance for happiness for a greater purpose.

Gunplay had a nice improvement compared to the original two games, and a lot of guns were buffed to be relevant, which was nice. Stealth is a bit toned down from Last Light but it is still recommended you try to be non-lethal because of the endings. And I did love the huge overhaul to weapon mods, was really fun to build up guns.

The best track in the OST is Race Against Fate, the one that plays during the final car ride back to the Aurora. Extremely emotional track, you can feel the desperation in the theme when you're unsure if Artyom will make it or not.

I don't know where the series will go from here, but I trust in 4A. Series keeps getting better with each entry. Wonderful conclusion to Artyom's trilogy. Very good game all around, but I think it lacks something special to push it over the top to 10/10.
