---
title: Divinity Original Sin 2 (2017) (Larian Studios) (PS4/XB1/PC)
description: 9/10 - High fantasy tabletop CRPG with coop play!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-08-06 14:29
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [larian, dos, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images5.alphacoders.com/120/1204667.png
  alt: Divinity Original Sin 2
---

Divinity Original Sin 2 was quite possibly the game that rejuvinated the whole tabletop-style CRPG genre in the 2010s, though a different Larian game was the one that really blew it up in terms of popularity (BG3!). And I think the praise that this game receives is well deserved for its time.

The overarching plot was okay, though I actually think the main story is one of the less impressive parts of the game. Fort Joy was fun with how many decisions you can make on the island on how to get off of it, Reapears Coast is where it kinda loses it's steam with how sprawling and unfocused it is. I think the last two acts were pretty good, but it does devolve into a pretty generic fantasy-land tale by then. What DOS2 does well incorporate the decisions that you made throughout the game and have them matter in the final conflict. And in classic CRPG style, those decisions you made 30+ hours ago will cascade down to the end of the game, and affect the ending. You can choose to become a God or not, choose to help or ignore your companions, you can even side with the "villain" of the game. Lots of decisions to be made when you play through the game, and a lot of replayability because of it.

Dallis was a fine villain, if a little bland. While both you and she had similar motivations to stop the God King from returning by the end, she obviously went about it in the wrong way - I'm not sure if butchering an entire generation of magic/source users was quite the play.

I think the characters were all pretty interesting. Red Prince, Lohse and Fane in particular were very interesting characters and had pretty relevant backstories relative to the plot. Red Prince where you can directly make him the recipient of his prophecy or _steal_ it away and become a God yourself at the end, Lohse with her getting possessed by one of the demons the God King was trying to summon, and Fane with him realizing that his daughter is fighting on the opposite side of him yet ultimately sharing the same goal was quite tragic.

The side quests in this game are what really made it shine - there are so many unique and branching ways to solve quests in DOS2, it really impressed me. While it is the standard for most CRPG-style games like Wasteland and Fallout, DOS2 was no slouch in that department either.

Gameplay and Combat are wonderful. I'm a sucker for strategy games with limited movement on each party member, so I took to it like a fish in water. The way you can interact with the environment and use it to your advantage (or detriment) when fighting was really impressive too. What I appreciated most about the game was that it generally isn't a very good idea to run the same sequence for every same fight - what works in one fight might get your party killed really quickly in another. And vice versa - something that might sound really stupid in one fight can actually be a pretty viable strategy in another, if you get my gist. Hats off to Larian for setting up a lot of unique fights in the game.

Some famous OST tracks include Rivellon and the main theme. Both are great tracks.

DOS2 excelled at giving you freedom to solve the game in unique ways, and that's what I really miss about games that get released these days - there's usually an optimal build or way to play the game. The plot gets too messy for my taste and for a game that's built around its writing, I do have to take off points for that. I think it's telling how difficult it is to explain the plot of the game to someone without going on a million side tangents about a small thing here or there, which in my mind suggests that the plot was a bit incoherent. But it genuinely is one of the best games I've ever played, and you can play it with multiple people!
