---
title: Persona 4 (2008) (Atlus) (PS2/PS3/PC)
description: 8.5/10 - The most cheerful serial killer murder mystery you'll ever play!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-17 20:05
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [atlus, persona, 8.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images2.alphacoders.com/226/226770.jpg
  alt: Persona 4
---

I love how dark and depressing most of this series is, and then you play P4 and you're like, WOW! So vibrant and sunny! But of course, there's always more to meet the eye...

I'm a sucker for whodunnits, so of course I loved P4's plot at the start. The plot kicks off with Narukami Yu moving to the sleepy town of Inaba, where he quickly learns there's a lot more excitement than what meets the eye with a lot of strange pheonmena popping up shortly before he moved. Namely, a weird television channel showing off strange antics from people in the town, a weird fog enveloping the town on certain days, and eventually... a murder. The kicker? The victim was one of the people who showed up on TV...

The game slowly progresses from there as a classmate of his shows up next in the TV, and Narukami Yu and his two friends realize they can enter a bizarre parallel world through a special TV in the local department store that shows off the psyche of the person on the broadcast as they begin to crack the case of the murder mystery...

I won't talk too much about the MC, he's a blank slate. I do think the main cast of P4 is the strongest one of the series - it felt like every single member of the squad received a major arc and their presence throughout the game was consistent. The slapstick humour and the pervert jokes from Teddy and Yosuke were a bit much at times but this was a party that truly held each other dearly as friends. The ending bit was beautiful, when the gang reunited once more years in the future, all of them looking a lot more comfortable with themselves as people.

The murder plot was executed brilliantly, I thought. A couple of fakeout killers in Mitsuo and Taro Namatame where it just seemed a little too convenient that he got caught in the act of dumping people into the TV. And of course, the real killer was Adachi, AKA your Uncle's partner in crime in the detective force of the police. Something about him was pretty shifty from the start honestly, but it doesn't really dawn on you that it's him until the final act of the game where it's revealed that he's bitter about being assigned to a dead-end job in a small town and he wanted to create his own fun in a twisted, fucked up way.

And to speak a bit on the main theme of the game, quite literally _facing yourself_ as the TV world exposed many of the main party's deepest traumas and inner psyche. Well, it showed it off for anyone who showed up on the TV really. You as the main character were the one trying to help them reconcile this gap and accept themselves for who they were. Whether it was Yukiko trying to run away from the responsibility of having to inherit the family business, Kanji's own closeted behaviour, Rise and her loss of self after becoming an idol, Naoto and the struggles she faced of being a girl in a male dominated profession/loss of her own femininity, as well as Teddy and his existential dread that he won't exist if the TV world is gone. It was a beautiful game that tackled a lot of social issues.

The main villain in this game... well, this is where I'll complain a bit. If Adachi was the main villain, than I'd put this game much higher on my review list. But he wasn't the main villain. It was actually Marie, helper character who was sitting next to Igor the entire game who was the source of the fog and the TV world who's trying to merge the two worlds together. No, wait! It was the gas station attendant lady at the start of the game who shook your hand and gave you the power to enter the TV world and see what you'd do with the power who created Marie and ran this sick social experiment!

No, this isn't a bad joke. Yes, Izanami is the main villain of the game, as a goddess who wanted to see what humans would do with the power of having an alternate dimension at their hands and the power to do whatever they wanted with it. Just... why? Why do JRPGs always feel the need for you to fight a god at the end???

Well, gameplay-wise I'd say this is more like P3 than P4. The dungeons feel a lot more streamlined and unique than Tartarus in P3, but it's not quite as clean and interesting as they are in P5. Exploring Inaba was pretty fun as well, as the first Persona game that let you move around an avatar in 3D.

OST is insanely good. I'll Face Myself is probably my favourite regular boss theme in the series, Reach out to the Truth is 100% up there as a regular battle theme, the overworld themes are fantastic (Heartbeat, Heartbreak), and the P4G opening theme (Shadow World) is super goated. The game's main motif is super catchy, they cooked for sure.

While this game looks all sunny and happy on the box art, I find it's just as equally as depressing as the other main Persona games. There are too many issues with the plot after the whodunnit concludes for me to rate this game higher, but the characters, the gameplay, the OST are all top tier. I do put P5 over it, but P4 is my favourite _persona_ game if that makes sense. Endorsed!
