---
title: The Legend of Zelda - Majora's Mask (2000) (N64/GCN/3DS) (Nintendo)
description: 10/10 - By far the most unique game in the series.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-24 22:33
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [nintendo, zelda]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://i0.wp.com/mynintendonews.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/zelda_majoras_mask_wallpaper.jpg?fit=1920%2C1080&ssl=1
  alt: Majora's Mask
---

Sequel to a beloved game!

The story in Majora's Mask is incredible, and is by far the best plot in a Zelda game ever. When you first reach the alternate universe of Termina and are soon-after presented with a 3 day in-game time limit, you'll probably feel like you're gonna hate this game, and that it's going to be stressful. But you keep playing, you keep exploring the world in spite of it. You learn about so many NPCs that live in Clock Town that you end up deciding to help them. And you go to each of those 4 major areas from Termina Field, helping to fix the land and area there as you make their lives better and take out the major threat in each region.

And then you have to reset the cycle, as you go back to the start of the 3 day cycle. It broke my heart, that they'll never remember all the things you've done for them in a different time and learned about - especially in those four major zones. The Deku Butler with his son missing, Darmani passing away too early and Mikau failing to save his unborn children, their stories broke my heart.

But those memories aren't all forgotten. They still exist within the masks you collect, and that really was the genius of the game. The fact that though the NPCs won't remember, you do, and you carry on those memories.

Tatl was a good companion with her passive aggressiveness yet still handing out useful information, better than Navi honestly though Navi is the more iconic fairy. I did like how it was implied that she came to really like Link by the end, but in true _tsundere_ fashion she ran away at the end, haha.

Skull Kid was a sad villain honestly, guy just wanted to make some friends and ended up causing the apocalypse by accident when he fell into this parallel universe. Very childish and acts kinda cartoonishly evil, but he also reminds me a lot of a kid that was never taught how to be a decent person, and that in itself made me feel sorry for the guy. I think he was meant to be pitied a little? I guess you could argue Majora is the actual villain of the game as the demon lurking in the mask and controlling Skull Kid though.

Gameplay was fantastic, the swimming mechanics in this game were _chef's kiss_. I'm not even sure if there's been a newer Zelda title that's surpassed it, it's so satisfying. The mask system was wonderful and gave you different ways to fight should you choose to, though the normal items that commonly reoccur throughout the series are still present in this one. Only 4 dungeons and bosses, and I think that's what made all of them so memorable, Snowhead is one of my favourite dungeons in the series, and I don't think I'll ever forget the mechanics of the Stone Tower Temple.

Majora's Mask had some wacky themes that I loved. Stone Tower Temple, the inverted version of the same theme, and the Boss Theme were the ones I remember best.

A sneakily dark game that revolved a lot around death, nihilism, and a grim reminder that it's impossible to save everyone, it's also a game about forging everlasting bonds that can transcend time and space. A game that I love dearly, very few games match the amount of character and love that was clearly poured into it. I think it's the best in the series and one of the best of all time.
