---
title: Cyberpunk 2077 (2020) (CD Projekt Red) (PS4/XB1/PC)
description: 9.5/10 - An ambitious game that got rushed and released too early.
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-08-03 2:04
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [cdpr, cyberpunk, 9.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images7.alphacoders.com/131/1317815.png
  alt: Cyberpunk 2077
---

This is actually me revisiting this game after Phantom Liberty dropped. This game had an awful launch but honestly with hindsight, it's a good game. 6 Ending (Well, 4 major ones) + 1 with Phantom Liberty, a very seamless world, Night City used to have some unused sections like Pacifica before PL but I blame CDPR's higher ups for that mostly with how rushed this game was.

Plot was very good - the first act with Jackie was a brilliant set up and _getting your feet wet_ type of tutorial in Night City. The heist demolishing V's life and being told there's a ticking timebomb in their head before Johnny Silverhand's (Keanu Reeves!) consciousness will take over was a good setup. CP2077 particularly explored a philosophical question about V, the main character of the game - the nature of one's self, and where V was starting to lose it as Johnny Silverhand began to override V's consciousness. How many decisions in the game were influenced by Johnny and not by V? As you see the percentage of Johnny's consciousness tick up with every main story quest completed, is the reason why you get friendly and nicer towards Johnny at the end because V genuinely sympathized with Johnny's cause, or was it just because Johnny was like a parasite and basically just causing V to agree with themselves, however much inadvertently it may have been? It was a fascinating question that kept getting asked, and for a protagonist that had no major backstory, made V one of the more deeper _blank slate_ type of main protagonists I've played as in a game.

I liked Johnny's bond with you and liked him as a character overall, was kinda hard to let go of him knowing that only one of you could survive. I think the major companions were decent, though Judy and Panam felt the most fleshed out as characters for sure compared to the dudes. Pretty sure you could thoretically miss River and Kerry if you didn't do their prerequisite sidequests? Judy in particular had a very interesting arc as someone who was friends/lovers with a prostitute who met a tragic end in the main story and her entire questline with avenging Evelyn was very well done.

I think you could argue that Yorinobu Arasaka or even Arasaka as a whole were the main antagonist of the game, and it mostly checks out with him being the catalyst behind most of the events of the game. But sadly, you can also argue that Johnny Silverhand/V is too for the reasons I mentioned earlier. This game wasn't explicitly about trying to hit it big in Night City in spite of what they portrayed the game as, but rather it was a personal story of V desperately trying to make the most out of what little time they had left to leave behind a legacy, and I thought they did that idea very well.

Lots of endings! I think Johnny taking over didn't feel right because of his thoughts on the matter, V siding with Arasaka and going against Johnny felt wrong too. V leaving with Panam/Aldecados felt like the most hopeful ending, but it didn't really feel right. I do think the Sun ending made the most sense, Johnny having the decision to choose whether he takes over V's body or not, and deciding to let go of V and letting V enjoy their last days before death felt like the most _cyberpunk_-esque ending. And of course, Phantom Liberty introduced an ending where V woke up alone years in the future fully cured, with everyone they knew having moved on with their lives and V ending up working a normal job as their body couldn't handle any modifications anymore. It was bittersweet and honestly felt a bit like a bad ending with the way they portrayed it.

Side quests weren't as good as W3 in my mind because of the sheer volume of them, but they were still decent. Some highlights like the Delamain autotaxi sidequest with the cars gaining sentience was hilarious.

Combat was fun. Before PL it wasn't anything special, but with the overhauled perk and stat system, it gave you freedom to do a lot. Melee was fun, gunplay wasn't bad. Shooting mechanics could've been better, but it was still very good. Netrunning in particular was pretty viable after the PL expansion, never got old overloading a dude's brain and instantly killing him.

I think Night City was fun to explore. There were so many sidequests and police altercations that it felt like there was something to do on every block, it was pretty overwhelming. I do wish there were more unique NPCs around instead of the GTA model of NPCs milling about. This wasn't the case when the game launched though, which is where I have to knock it down a bit.

And going into the main reason why this game got a revision from me was the release of Phantom Liberty. It is easily one of the best expansions I've ever played, just sheer content-wise I'd might put it as the best. Dogtown made use of a large part of Pacifica that was empty, and there was a massive amount of sidequests to do in that zone. The main plot of Phantom Liberty is arguably better than CP2077's - Solomon Reed (Idris Elba!) and Songbird (Korea represent!) are two extremely complex characters who were forced into a very difficult situation. It doesn't feel right going for any of the major endings - Reed wants to save Songbird and feels guilty at what she's become as her former mentor but also feels compelled out of duty to return her back to the US government. Songbird is going through something similar as V where she was losing her sense of self as her brain was getting overloaded from the experiments NUSA made her undergo and is sympathetic in that regard, but she lies... and manipulates... and keeps lying... and manipulating...

I don't think there was a right answer to the ending of Phantom Liberty. I think the one where you side with Reed but you mercy kill Songbird is the most correct one, It's hard to justify giving her back to NUSA to let her continue to lose her mind and letting her escape fully feels way too unrealistic given how she stabs you in the back and misleads you the whole time, though it's easy to say she probably needed the cure to her neural problem more than V did in hindsight knowing there are different ways for V end their story. But that's from the perspective from us, who know everything that's going on with her and are a third party with no stakes in the matter? It definitely felt like a shade out of Witcher with the _lesser evil_ theme being so prevalent here, extremely well written DLC.

The main theme (V's theme) is iconic, though I think the most iconic track from the game is I Really Want to Stay at Your House. It pretty much summarizes the whole game, to be honest. Was also a banger track anyway, one of my favourite lyric songs from a game, ever.

Before PL I would've argued CP2077 is not a bad game. It was a good game with some bittersweet moments throughout. Good characters, good story overall, good gameplay. Disappointing it wasn't the game of the century after the hype it got? Sure.

After PL, it would've been a 10/10 game... if it released like this. I can't justify putting it as 10/10 when there were so many genuine issues at launch with underpromised systems and a relatively empty open world, and it needing a DLC 3 years after it launched for these to be fixed. But if you do play it now, it is genuinely an incredible game.
