---
title: Red Dead Redemption 2 (2018) [PS4/XB1/**PC**] {Rockstar Games}
description: 10/10 - *Quite possibly, the greatest game I've ever played.*
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-18 21:53
categories: [Reviews]
tags: [rockstar, red dead redemption]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/44/Red_Dead_Redemption_II.jpg
  alt: Red Dead Redemption 2
---

Somehow, Rockstar outdid themselves.

The plot of the game is legendary. While it does go through some slower patches unlike RDR1 which had fairly even pacing throughout, the climax of the story when the gang turns on Arthur is one of the most iconic ever, in my opinion. The hideouts constantly changing throughout the game and reflecting the current state of the gang was done well thematically. And of course, the ending of the game where Arthur sacrifices himself to give John and Abigail a chance to live the life Arthur couldn't with Mary truly was his redemption. The epilogue setting up the events of RDR1 was fantastic, yet tragic too as John squanders the opportunity Arthur gave him by choosing to continue the cycle of revenge on Micah. Really brought everything full circle.

Arthur Morgan is my favourite video game protaganist ever, his arc from starting out as a loyal thug who dreamed of being someone worthy to be with the girl he loved to becoming exactly that without realizing it by the end was incredible. His death was brutal, and we all knew it was coming if you played RDR1 before. What makes Arthur such an interesting character to me is that he genuinely had an artist's soul with his incredible sketches and his appreciation for the beauty of the world around him. Yet it's because of the circumstances of how he grew up in and his evironment as a child by getting adopted into the gang that made him have to live as an outlaw, which was such a waste of talent.

Micah is nowhere close to being one of my favourite villains of all time, but he was necessary and perfect for the plot. A rat that turned most of the members of the gang on Arthur and pandered to Dutch's overinflated ego, he was the trigger that caused the gang to implode, though it could be argued Micah simply hastened the inevitable. Just a guy that drove you insane by watching him and his actions, fantastic character all around. The confrontation you have with him both as Arthur in the ending and John in the epilogue were fantastic, and I do think Dutch being the one to stab him in the back at the end was a fitting way for him to go out.

Talking about some more characters, Dutch losing his sanity over the course of the game was really sad to see - I think he's one of the best characters in the game and arguably the most complex. You could definitely argue that it wasn't Micah, but rather Dutch is the main villain of the game. On one hand, I do think Dutch wanted to help create a better world for his gang initially, but his need for validation, his egomania/narcissism, and his obsession about doing things _his way_ I think really revealed itself after Hosea's death where he began to spiral out of control and made horrible decision after horrible decsion, listening to Micah as he fed into it.

Another standout character was Sadie - her friendship with Arthur and eventually growing into his ride or die is one of the most well written platonic relationships I've seen in a game as two broken people who could relate to each other better than most could with how similar their ideals were.

Seeing Bill and Javier from RDR1 during happier times was also nice to see, though with the plot of the game devolving into what it did, was kinda depressing to also see why they went down the paths they did in RDR1.

Gameplay is one of the most impressive I've ever seen. The scale of the world, the amount of random events and sidequests you can do, how alive everything feels, it's just one of the most well made maps I've ever seen in a game. Saint Denis is up there for one of the most impressive cities ever made in a video game, it really captured the _New Orleans_ type of vibe they were going for. The immersion is incredible with the animations and the little minigames you can do with hunting/fishing among other things, it just feels like you can do anything you want in the game.

The map is absolutely HUGE. With 5 main areas and a 6th only accessible in one chapter, it feels like there's no shortage of content to do as you progress through the game. In fact, I think the game actively encourages you to take time off of the main story and just wander around.

OST was fantastic. American Venom is my personal favourite theme from the game, probably the most iconic theme in the game too. A lot of old-timey country and folk songs that were prevalent in this era too, awesome all-around.

Arguably the best game I've ever played, I have no idea if Rockstar will ever make a game like this again. It'll be hard to surpass, for sure.

Easiest 10/10 ever.
