---
title: Metro - Last Light (2013)(4A Games)(PS3/X360/PC)
description: 9/10 - Why didn't they call this 2034?
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-12 21:28
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [4a games, metro, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://r4.wallpaperflare.com/wallpaper/744/241/258/video-games-metro-last-light-wallpaper-68862d08f0f04ce8f01cf13ed8e234da.jpg
  alt: Metro - Last Light
---

Sequel to 2033! It assumes that you chose the bad ending from 2033, AKA Artyom nuked the Dark Ones instead of saving them.

Plot was fantastic and it really built upon the last game. We see Artyom living with regret about accidentally wiping out an entire race of possibly evolved humans. When he gets a mission to hunt down the last remaining/known Dark One, he ends up going on a journey through hell and back with two warring factions in the Metro, a plot on one of the sides (Red Line) to annihilate most of the inhabitants of the Metro, and his own personal stake in trying to save the last Dark One in order to find redemption from his previous actions in 2033.

The main villain in the game is Colonel Korbut, the _shadow_ leader of the Red Line with his main ambition being to take control of D6 (Rangers' HQ, lots of supplies and nuclear weapons) using any means necessary. Whether its through viruses, espionage, trying to rile up factions in the Metro to war against each other, and by the end, just using brute force to try and capture it. He was a strong and compelling villain, and if I'm not mistaken, would not be quite out of place in most of Russian history with his methods.

A different stand out character I want to highlight as well was Pavel, who was the secondary antagonist of the game. In the opening sequence of the game, Pavel is shown to be an ally, someone trustworthy after saving Artyom from being imprisoned by the Reich, and a very competent partner. Yet he stabs Artyom in the back once he reaches Red Line territory as it's revealed he's one of the Red Line's chief commanders. But what I do find interesting about him is that the friendship and camaraderie that he and Artyom built up during that segment of the game was quite real - it's heavily implied from the Dark One that Pavel never wanted to kill him and feels regret being on this mission. It was a unique bond I've never really seen often in a video game, and what is sad about their situation is that they probably would've been friends if they had met normally in Moscow and Russia wasn't nuked to oblivion in this timeline. Ah well...

As per usual with Metro games, there's a moral system. As such, you generally want to play game as non-violent as possible. Only stealth knockouts, don't engage enemies unless they engage you first, etc. This time though, it makes sense. The little Dark One has been observing and learning about human nature from your actions, and that directly affects the ending of the game. I find that with Metro Exodus existing, the good ending of the game where the Dark One accepts that Artyom is a good person who deserves a second chance along with the rangers and unleashes the horde of Dark Ones hibernating in the nuclear silo of D6 has to be canon. But I do find that Artyom dying to save D6 and the Dark One expressing his regret of not helping Artyom in the bad ending is equally satisfying.

Gameplay mechanics-wise, stealth is a lot more revamped in this one. It's definitely the ideal way to play Metro games, but this one was quite ridiculous with how OP it is. I liked the weapon variety in the game, and the setpieces and enemy variety was quite strong.

The OST is quite good. The Farewell and Mobius are the two big themes in the game, which stem from the game's main motif. I like both, the melancholy made a lot of sense with how much the game pushed Artyom to want to be better.

While there aren't many major flaws of Last Light, I will say that with the amount of human enemies in the levels, you're probably not going to be using your guns _that_ often. Is that a feature or a downside? Up to you.

Another game that hit and really built on the success of the prequel, Last Light was a great game, with no major flaws. I do feel like it didn't do that much outstanding though, just a very solid overall game. Feel like most action-adventure stealth post-apocalyptic games tend to do well, no?
