---
title: LA Noire (2011) (Rockstar Games) (PS3/X360/PC)
description: 9/10 - Press X to doubt!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-08-24 15:37
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [rockstar, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images3.alphacoders.com/616/thumb-1920-616243.jpg
  alt: LA Noire
---

I think LA Noire is one of the most fascinating games ever released.

One of the biggest budgets ever for a game that didn't sell particularly well. And I do think it's a criminally underrated game overall. The plot is one of Rockstar's best, honestly. The flashback cutscenes were weird at first, but they tied the story together beautifully by the end, once you know all of the characters and their backstories. 5 desks, first few largely unrelated but sprinkles of hints of the overarching story but by the time Vice/Arson hits, the main story truly picks up and reveals itself.

Cole Phelps is one of the most polarizing main characters ever, and I think he's honestly one of the best protagonists in gaming, writing-wise. His backstory of his terrible decision-making as an army seargent causing hundreds of needless deaths in WW2 and his trauma for getting rewarded for his cowardice made you feel sorry for the guy when that's unraveled. Yet he's also very unlikable as a person - he's a bit of a dick, very short with people, he's got a bit of an ego, and he ultimately cheats on his wife after the war with Elsa. That's my knock on him as a character, as we never really got to see how his marriage fell apart inbetween the Traffic/Homicide desks. Yet I do find the ending of the game fitting, sacrificing himself to save the two people who impacted his life the most post-war (Elsa and Jack) and feeling like he finally redeemed himself for his sins was a fitting way to go for him. A very human, complex, morally grey character with a strong sense of duty, I found him to be such a fascinating character.

And Jack Kelso as a recurring character from Phelps' flashbacks who ultimately becomes the deuteragonist of the game was fantastic as well. We see that Kelso is an idealist and had little respect for Phelps' cold hearted methods in the military, and ultimately it turns out that Kelso was a far better leader than Phelps was during the Okinawa incident as Kelso takes over command when Phelps loses control over the atrocity he was commanded to commit. Yet when they reunite years later to investigate the Arson cases together - Phelps as a cop, Kelso as a third party insurance agent - we can see that their roles are more reversed - it's Kelso who's far more jaded with the system while Phelps is desperate and believes he can take down corruption. Kelso's final words for Phelps at his funeral were perfect ("He was not my friend, but never my enemy"), and I think realized just how similar they were by the end though they walked two very different paths.

Dr Fontaine and Leland Monroe were two great villains. Fontaine was the more personal villain to Phelps as the man who was redistributing military morphine and getting veterans addicted to it in order to carry out arson as their fixer. Using his position as a psychiatrist and get close with the PTSD filled soldiers (which stemmed from Phelps' own actions in the war) to do this was just downright evil. Monroe was the overarching villain as Fontaine's partner and using the arson cases in suburban development to create insurance fraud and get paid out for it. While he was less present than Fontaine was and mostly a puppet master pulling the strings in LA in his scheme to consolidate wealth in LA, he was ultimately a good villain in my book.

Gameplay was very unique. Ace Attorney or Witcher 3's investigative sections meets GTA style free-roaming is the closest thing I can liken it to. What I found insane was if you know what tells to look for in the NPC's face that your interrogating, you could more or less know how to navigate the conversation/interrogation almost every single time, which was really fascinating from a gameplay perspective. Of course you could logic/reason it out if you got stuck but it was absolutely mind boggling to me that a game could be this realistic. Shooting was definitely a bit clunky for its time, and driving was definitely poor, to the point of being pretty uncomfortable. But it is pretty close to the standard Rockstar mechanics.

The world is disappointingly empty, which is kinda sad but technically Rockstar didn't really work on the map design of the game so I guess they didn't really have a chance to add their charm to the game.

My issues with the game are possibly the fact that the game was very unfocused in the first few chapters. While Patrol/Traffic/Homicide showed off Phelps' rise as a cop and his incredible ability for investigating unlike his stint in the military and Vice/Arson showed off his downfall after the scandal with his affair, the first three chapters did feel very disconnected to the last two, and at times you might wonder what the main story is. Further, though this wasn't really the dev's fault but they did have to cut out two chapters (Fraud/Burglary) which is where I assume a chunk of Phelps' own personal life was removed as it did feel like the affair came out of nowhere.

OST was good, but not outstanding with one exception. I Always Kill the Things I Love is a song that sums up Phelps' entire life and foreshadows his actions in hindsight - it's a fantastic song.

It was a great game overall. There were some poor things it did as a game, and it did feel very unfinished but that should not detract from the overall plot that they were able to construct, it really was a beautiful story and ending.
