---
title: Grand Theft Auto 4 (2008) (Rockstar Games) (PS3/X360/PC)
description: 8.5/10 - Hey cousin! Lets go bowling!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-23 22:18
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [rockstar, gta, 8.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://images4.alphacoders.com/601/thumb-1920-601980.jpg
  alt: Grand Theft Auto 4
---

Honestly, one of the more impressive renditions I've seen of NYC in a video game.

GTA 4 was an interesting game, and I think the plot was overall fairly solid. Starting off with Niko Bellic hopping off the boat from Serbia/Yugoslavia in Liberty City to try and start anew and getting himself wrapped up in crime after crime by being in the wrong place at the wrong time. Eventually, we see the central point of the plot revealed. As Niko tries to run from his past from the Yugoslav wars, he keeps finding himself getting involved with people who may or may not have been connected to the mystery that haunted him - just who got his squad executed?

Niko Bellic was a really interesting character that Rockstar crafted. Very dry, blunt guy and an almost "boring" personality, it almost feels right that his deadpan contrasts the ridiculousness of the situations he finds himself in. I found his story of trying to move on from his past hauntings to be pretty compelling. And because Niko was ultimately unable to move on, I found that him being railroaded into two tragic endings of the game (Deal or Revenge) to be fitting for his character.

I'd say the main villain of the game is ultimately Dimitri, as he's the one who keeps roping Niko back into committing crimes whether it's directly or indirectly. He sold Niko out early on in the game to Russian mobsters, and constantly sees Niko as a tool to push down in order to get ahead in life, which is kinda sad honestly. I found him to be an annoying villain executed pretty well, and his death

I think both endings were well done. Either he chooses to work with Dimitri who gets his cousin Roman clipped, before Niko goes to avenge him. Or you kill Dimitri earlier on, and its Jimmy Pegorino who gets Niko's love interest Kate killed instead, and you chase him down for his comeuppance.

Characters were a hoot this game. Roman is super goated and the best cousin Niko could've asked for by the end honestly (RIP if you choose that ending). The Jamaican gangsters ending up being the realest allies Niko had was hilarious too, even funnier that I'm from Toronto so I understood some of their talk LMAO. The McRearys were also hilarious, though I did feel sorry for Packie as he sees he loses most of his family by the end of the game, whether its getting killed or incarcerated. And I did think the reveal that the guy who sold out Niko's unit was a junkie who did it for pennies on the dollar to be extremely powerful, I think it might be one of the best cutscenes in the series. I almost feel like it's canon for Niko to just spare him.

Gameplay was immense, I think the best driving mechanics in the series are in this game. GTA5 is smoother but GTA4 had a lot more skill expression you could do with drifting. And not to talk too much yet on the DLC but the activities and gameplay tidbits they introduced that stuck around in GTA5 was incredible to see.

DLCs were both fantastic. Lost and the Damned is shorter, but it was a nice story on how Johnny K bringing glory to his biker gang. If we remember from the main plot, he was one of the players involved in the diamond mission and we also get to play out some missions from GTA 4 from his perspective, which was interesting.

The Ballad of Gay Tony is one of the most impressive DLC expansions of all time. Playing as Luis, former gangster turned club bouncer, we see how he tries to save Gay Tony from well, himself. And Tony's own horrible decisions that's threatening the club's finances, including some beef with other mobsters in the city. The gameplay elements they added like activities (parachuting, base jumping), the street fights, the club minigame, new weapons, and generally more funny and ridiculous missions than the main campaign. And of course, Luis was also a part of the same missions that Johnny was, so we get to play those out from Luis' perspective too. Those Diamonds really had a lot of heat and stakes on them, huh?

Now the bad: the open world was not that fun to explore in all honesty. Which is saying something, because this was NYC imagined in a game. The allies you make in the game spamming you to do activities with them was also annoying and the relationship mechanic was tedious. Plot while it was interesting, also got really messy in the middle where it felt like Niko says he wants to do one thing, but then he just goes and keeps committing crimes anyway. Also, the original PC version was HORRIBLE. What kinda game needs GFWL to run?

OST wasn't particularly memorable, but the opening theme (Soviet Connection) is quite famous, and for good reason. Banger track.

All in all, it was a good game. I think it is the best GTA game in a vacuum which is kinda funny for me to say because of how different the tone of the game is compared to the ironic, satire filled other games in the series. But it is hard for me to rate this game as highly as some other titles, especially since the two expansions carry a lot of the gameplay fun too.
