---
title: Red Dead Redemption (2010) (PS3/X360/NSW/PC) (Rockstar Games)
description: 9.5/10 - Spaghetti Western Cowboy game with a tragic ending!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-27 20:46
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [rockstar, red dead redemption, 9.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://cdn.wccftech.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/red-dead-redemption-pc-HD-scaled.jpg
  alt: Red Dead Redemption
---

RDR is one of the most iconic games ever, and for good reason.

Plot was legendary. Game had me hooked on the main missions the entire way through. From raiding Bill Williamson's gang in presumably rural Texas to chasing Javier in the middle of the Mexican Revolution across the border, to John's story coming full circle with Dutch, I don't think there's a noticeable weak point ever in the plot and it was beautifully paced. Playing RDR2 will only elevate your opinion of this plot once you know the history of these characters, especially knowing John Marston and what he went through in that game to even have a chance at the life he led.

John Marston was a fantastic protagonist. Playing as a guy getting blackmailed into doing "righteous things" from the government for his family was great, got me invested in his character. I do find it interesting that John owns his past and history as an outlaw and makes it clear that he's not a good person to most people he meets and you see that in his interactions with most NPCs. And by being used by the government to hunt down his former gangmates, John does eventually see that though Bill, Javier and Dutch aren't exactly leading righteous lives either, John himself isn't much better by murdering them and going back on the family that once saved him. But it's his undying desire to give his wife and son a chance at a normal life that changes him to become a good man by the end of RDR1.

The most tragic thing about the game is that John Marston died for nothing, essentially. All the bullshit he endured in the game was to give his son a chance to choose a better life, and by murdering Ross at the end as Jack in the Epilogue, Jack dooms himself to repeat the cycle that John wanted him to escape from as Jack himself becomes an outlaw. Sadly though, it's realistic.

While Bill and Javier weren't particularly deep characters in this game, the juxtaposition of Dutch in RDR2 being such an egomaniacal preacher who opposed the direction society was moving in and took in rejects for his own vision of what he viewed freedom as, to him in RDR1 where he leads a ragtag group of Native Americans to commit small-time terrorism acts on the American government was really brutal to see. His death and final words ("Our time has passed") to John were tragic too, because it may have been the first and only time Dutch had ever been truly honest to himself that he walked down the wrong path. Also was some grim foreshadowing on what was about to happen to John.

Agent Ross was a necessary villain, and it was obvious from the start he'd be the final villain. Opportunistic, double crossing, semi-decent at his job but not overly so, he may have been more or less a plot device, but he was effective in the role and I liked his purpose in the story. More so because of what he represented in the plot - he was the grim reaper of John's sins, and when he came to the farmhouse in the ending sequence of the game, it was time to collect.

The world was a bit empty at times, I'll say that. There were some random encounters but not nearly enough to make me think the world was filled with content. I do think that's the one flaw of the game, though the fact that this game was able to run as well as it did on the cursed generation of consoles was already impressive. Gunplay was fun, and I loved deadeye. The systems like hunting and the minigames like 5 finger fillet were incredible for its time, did wonders for the immersion of the world.

Deadman's Gun is a beautiful song, really was fitting to make it the credits theme.

A story that mostly focused on whether a person really can find redemption in spite of how deep some of those crimes can run, I do believe John did everything he could to find his redemption in the end, though you could argue whether or not it was futile to begin with. I'd argue this game told one of the best stories in a game ever. Have to deduct a bit of points for the world/exploration but it was still very much an incredible game.
