---
title: Fallout 2 (1998) (Black Isle Studios) (PC)
description: 9.5/10 - A true classic, especially in the difficulty department!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-07-30 7:17
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [black isle, fallout, 9.5/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://c4.wallpaperflare.com/wallpaper/795/503/593/fallout-2-fallout-power-armor-video-games-wallpaper-preview.jpg
  alt: Fallout 2
---

Fallout 2 is an infamous game - it is widely known and remembered as an incredibly difficult isometric CRPG.

The plot is a lot more fleshed out and complicated than Fallout 1 as you leave Arroyo as a tribal for a GECK to save the village and end up having to stop a genocide from the remanants of the old American government on the wasteland. What made FO2 an interesting game was that basically every city that you stroll through is having their own problems with local politics and residents - New Reno, Vault City, NCR, San Francisco, etc. And just like with many RPGs from this era, there are many different ways you can choose to influence (or choose to completely disassociate, that's also a decision in and of itself) the endings of what happens in these areas.

Frank Horrigan was a terrible villain as someone we see about two times before we actually fight him, but a fun final boss. That fight is one of the hardest I've ever played through, I loved the challenge. Enclave as a whole was more of the main villain of the game in this one, and I liked them just fine as their purpose in the game. Their plan to kill all _impure_ humans left in America was horrifying, yet for some reason I don't think it'd be completely out of place these days in 2025...?

You even got some companions with depth in this game. Marcus was an interesting character as a super mutant from the Master's army in FO1 that's incredibly intelligent and tries to broker a peace between the mutants and normal people in Redding. We see him again in FNV, unsurprisingly in a similar role for a much smaller town. Cassidy too was an interesting guy who hates the direction that the NCR has taken, which is funny given his daughter's take on the NCR in FNV as well. And while Sulik was probably the least fleshed out character of the three given how his companion quest was never added to the game, his takes as a tribal were hilarious yet still had a sense of his own wisdom to it, which was well done.

Gameplay was really just an improved version of FO1, with far more weapon variety. Still very difficult, and the temple at the start will probably make you want to quit. But I do urge you, bear with it. The amount of side quests and factions in this game was absolutely massive for a game of its time. What was crazy about the game was that there was often several ways to solve a quest, and the devs really did think of a LOT - the freedom this game gave you was revolutionary, and I wish Bethesda built upon it more after they bought out the IP.

Not really many tracks/OST to remember from this one.

One of the hardest games I've ever played, but also one of the most in-depth and fun RPGs too. I think the villain/premise of the plot is a pretty weak aspect of the game but the rest of it is genuinely fantastic. Worth a try if you can stick with it.
