---
title: God of War (2018) (Santa Monica Studios) (PS4/PC)
description: 9/10 - Kratos, but Norse!
author: arclmpulse
date: 2025-11-09 13:59
categories: [Reviews, Video Games]
tags: [gow, sms, 9/10 vg]
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://wallpapers.com/images/hd/god-of-war-kratos-and-atreus-at-river-nahx1u4rudbu55hy.jpg
  alt: God of War
---

I haven't played the earlier versions of GoW, so my knowledge on the series is a bit rusty as a preface.

One of the most stunning games graphically for its time - and this was released in the same year as RDR2 was, mind you - I think God of War has held up fairly well all things considered.

Plot is pretty good. After killing the entire pantheon of Greek Gods, Kratos decides to move away from Greece and to chill out in the North. Pretty understandable! The main conflict in the story comes with Atreus - Kratos' son - and Kratos dealing with the fallout of his recently deceased partner/Atreus' mother's ashes and to reach a place to properly send her off, but there are several gods in the Norse pantheon that are interested in those ashes, as they get hunted on their journey. While this is the main narrative, GoW also heavily looks into family dynamics, and the bond between parent and child as Kratos struggles to navigate fatherhood after being someone who only knew how to kill and fight.

Characters are outstanding. Kratos being haunted by the ghosts of his past (literally from previous games) was set up well and explained how he was a pretty poor father to Atreus from day 1, yet also shows that Kratos wants to be a better father to him, and just doesn't know how. Atreus himself was a whiny brat at the start who isn't very useful in combat but grows into someone quite dependable and matures a lot emotionally throughout the plot. Also pretty interesting to note that his mythological equivalent is Loki, haha. And to juxtapose them, we have Freya as a supporting character who takes a liking to Atreus and Kratos and tries to help Kratos manage his relationship with his son, but we also see as how her far too _hands-on_ parenting style had created a horrible monster in Baldur.

The main villain of the game and the one who's been hunting you this whole time is Baldur, who I think worked perfectly as a foil to Kratos/Atreus with him and Freya representing the opposite side of cold/distant parenting of being a helicopter parent. True to the myths, Baldur can't be harmed normally because of the blessing and intervention Freya gave him, but the game takes this to an extreme and shows how mad and resentful Baldur's become at his mother and the world as a whole as he can't _feel_ anything.

The gameplay is as to be expected with these games, very action/beat-em-up focused. You get an axe in this game along with a shield, and eventually Kratos' blades from the previous games. There aren't many complex puzzles in the game, but the ones we got with interacting with the environment and Kratos' abilities were pretty fun. I'd say the world is actually decently open and the game encourages you to go off on your own periodically throughout the game and explore the world - mostly midgard. And I do highly recommend it, it is a very beautiful game.

My biggest complaint is the enemy variety - 1000th battle of fighting dragurs! - and not a lot of interesting or unique boss fights. Which is one of the biggest draws of this game, the combat and fighting. As such I do have do knock it down a peg.

Probably my favourite track from the game is _Deliverance_, I think the track pretty accurately reflects Baldur's mental state as he gets more and more into the fight when he realizes Kratos can finally harm him and the extra brass/instruments start kicking in.

God of War was overall outstanding with an oddly deep plot narratively. I think it is a great game though you may find it getting repetitive towards the end.
